Skip to main content

**COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.** [CDC health information](https://www.coronavirus.gov) [NIH research information](https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus)

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

[En Espa√±ol](https://www.genome.gov/es/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Breve-guia-
de-genomica)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. A Brief Guide to Genomics

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Open Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7
l6QAAAAilBMVEUAAAD////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////2N2iNAAAALXRSTlMAJuVMCaUE9M66Dtl6/Pn
v65RG6d/Sn4J0OznHwrKqm5CJgWRbVi0V6sCKVR5yLz5NAAABEElEQVR4AY2P6XKDMAyExWEOMCRAw
0HuI02P+v1fr1IN2HJmMt1fu/pmbQkmZXexaUp/ex7gWWG/UrPyb5e+vylbh5DROlZcycPuappcbsH
12CjSLjL//r2c11OSJcXTgiXFz2zJI21ZePNFlPLMXqXAiZjCnco12GpxEk/bC9oKmDxqBNpv0HbAl
eNMartGe3PwHmeVtqV+iEmY3ejqq4NT096iPXIa0Ye99l9om5DhQKFG7QfykpUTnPgRmMvK0cJnKnT
sqZVZ/kL5I1vygXLReuSjIFEkn5JWqCcq37cp7ezyx065Yjw6FRZY+y4HT8Rzq8u8Zw5hICtR9QPd6
3Kuf/MUXvIYXnLe5jyN059fYMIyqmUcc+gAAAAASUVORK5CYII=) ![Open Navigation](data:i
mage/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeBAMAAADJHrORAAAAElBMVEUAAAD///
////////////////8+Uq06AAAABXRSTlMAiHfvO9PV4LcAAAAoSURBVBjTYyAEnJSQgQqDaSgyCGYI
RQXofAz1joLIQISQ9aPuo8x9ABWaRO+IIVJ/AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC) ![Close Navigation](data
:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD/
//////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTlMAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc4
0AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnx
bCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzLZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEyt
mP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

![Close Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM
7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD///////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTl
MAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc40AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0
K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnxbCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzL
ZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEytmP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

[En Espa√±ol](https://www.genome.gov/es/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Breve-guia-
de-genomica)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. A Brief Guide to Genomics

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI_grey_teal.svg)

# A Brief Guide to Genomics

Genomics is the study of all of a person's genes (the genome), including
interactions of those genes with each other and with the person's environment.

## What is DNA?

Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the chemical compound that contains the
instructions needed to develop and direct the activities of nearly all living
organisms. DNA molecules are made of two twisting, paired strands, often
referred to as a double helix

Each DNA strand is made of four chemical units, called nucleotide bases, which
comprise the genetic "alphabet." The bases are adenine (A), thymine (T),
guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Bases on opposite strands pair specifically: an
A always pairs with a T; a C always pairs with a G. The order of the As, Ts,
Cs and Gs determines the meaning of the information encoded in that part of
the DNA molecule just as the order of letters determines the meaning of a
word.

  * What is DNA? 

Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the chemical compound that contains the
instructions needed to develop and direct the activities of nearly all living
organisms. DNA molecules are made of two twisting, paired strands, often
referred to as a double helix

Each DNA strand is made of four chemical units, called nucleotide bases, which
comprise the genetic "alphabet." The bases are adenine (A), thymine (T),
guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Bases on opposite strands pair specifically: an
A always pairs with a T; a C always pairs with a G. The order of the As, Ts,
Cs and Gs determines the meaning of the information encoded in that part of
the DNA molecule just as the order of letters determines the meaning of a
word.

## What is a genome?

An organism's complete set of DNA is called its genome. Virtually every single
cell in the body contains a complete copy of the approximately 3 billion DNA
base pairs, or letters, that make up the human genome.

With its four-letter language, DNA contains the information needed to build
the entire human body. A gene traditionally refers to the unit of DNA that
carries the instructions for making a specific protein or set of proteins.
Each of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 genes in the human genome codes for an
average of three proteins.

Located on 23 pairs of chromosomes packed into the nucleus of a human cell,
genes direct the production of proteins with the assistance of enzymes and
messenger molecules. Specifically, an enzyme copies the information in a
gene's DNA into a molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA). The mRNA
travels out of the nucleus and into the cell's cytoplasm, where the mRNA is
read by a tiny molecular machine called a ribosome, and the information is
used to link together small molecules called amino acids in the right order to
form a specific protein.

Proteins make up body structures like organs and tissue, as well as control
chemical reactions and carry signals between cells. If a cell's DNA is
mutated, an abnormal protein may be produced, which can disrupt the body's
usual processes and lead to a disease such as cancer.



![A Brief Guide to Genomics](/sites/default/files/inline-images
/Guide_Genomics_Fact-sheet2020.jpg)

  * What is a genome?

An organism's complete set of DNA is called its genome. Virtually every single
cell in the body contains a complete copy of the approximately 3 billion DNA
base pairs, or letters, that make up the human genome.

With its four-letter language, DNA contains the information needed to build
the entire human body. A gene traditionally refers to the unit of DNA that
carries the instructions for making a specific protein or set of proteins.
Each of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 genes in the human genome codes for an
average of three proteins.

Located on 23 pairs of chromosomes packed into the nucleus of a human cell,
genes direct the production of proteins with the assistance of enzymes and
messenger molecules. Specifically, an enzyme copies the information in a
gene's DNA into a molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA). The mRNA
travels out of the nucleus and into the cell's cytoplasm, where the mRNA is
read by a tiny molecular machine called a ribosome, and the information is
used to link together small molecules called amino acids in the right order to
form a specific protein.

Proteins make up body structures like organs and tissue, as well as control
chemical reactions and carry signals between cells. If a cell's DNA is
mutated, an abnormal protein may be produced, which can disrupt the body's
usual processes and lead to a disease such as cancer.



![A Brief Guide to Genomics](/sites/default/files/inline-images
/Guide_Genomics_Fact-sheet2020.jpg)

## What is DNA sequencing?

Sequencing simply means determining the exact order of the bases in a strand
of DNA. Because bases exist as pairs, and the identity of one of the bases in
the pair determines the other member of the pair, researchers do not have to
report both bases of the pair.

In the most common type of sequencing used today, called sequencing by
synthesis, DNA polymerase (the enzyme in cells that synthesizes DNA) is used
to generate a new strand of DNA from a strand of interest. In the sequencing
reaction, the enzyme incorporates into the new DNA strand individual
nucleotides that have been chemically tagged with a fluorescent label. As this
happens, the nucleotide is excited by a light source, and a fluorescent signal
is emitted and detected. The signal is different depending on which of the
four nucleotides was incorporated. This method can generate 'reads' of 125
nucleotides in a row and billions of reads at a time.

To assemble the sequence of all the bases in a large piece of DNA such as a
gene, researchers need to read the sequence of overlapping segments. This
allows the longer sequence to be assembled from shorter pieces, somewhat like
putting together a linear jigsaw puzzle. In this process, each base has to be
read not just once, but at least several times in the overlapping segments to
ensure accuracy.

Researchers can use DNA sequencing to search for genetic variations and/or
mutations that may play a role in the development or progression of a disease.
The disease-causing change may be as small as the substitution, deletion, or
addition of a single base pair or as large as a deletion of thousands of
bases.

  * What is DNA sequencing?

Sequencing simply means determining the exact order of the bases in a strand
of DNA. Because bases exist as pairs, and the identity of one of the bases in
the pair determines the other member of the pair, researchers do not have to
report both bases of the pair.

In the most common type of sequencing used today, called sequencing by
synthesis, DNA polymerase (the enzyme in cells that synthesizes DNA) is used
to generate a new strand of DNA from a strand of interest. In the sequencing
reaction, the enzyme incorporates into the new DNA strand individual
nucleotides that have been chemically tagged with a fluorescent label. As this
happens, the nucleotide is excited by a light source, and a fluorescent signal
is emitted and detected. The signal is different depending on which of the
four nucleotides was incorporated. This method can generate 'reads' of 125
nucleotides in a row and billions of reads at a time.

To assemble the sequence of all the bases in a large piece of DNA such as a
gene, researchers need to read the sequence of overlapping segments. This
allows the longer sequence to be assembled from shorter pieces, somewhat like
putting together a linear jigsaw puzzle. In this process, each base has to be
read not just once, but at least several times in the overlapping segments to
ensure accuracy.

Researchers can use DNA sequencing to search for genetic variations and/or
mutations that may play a role in the development or progression of a disease.
The disease-causing change may be as small as the substitution, deletion, or
addition of a single base pair or as large as a deletion of thousands of
bases.

## What is the Human Genome Project?

The Human Genome Project, which was led at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) by the National Human Genome Research Institute, produced a very high-
quality version of the human genome sequence that is freely available in
public databases. That international project was successfully completed in
April 2003, under budget and more than two years ahead of schedule.

The sequence is not that of one person, but is a composite derived from
several individuals. Therefore, it is a "representative" or generic sequence.
To ensure anonymity of the DNA donors, more blood samples (nearly 100) were
collected from volunteers than were used, and no names were attached to the
samples that were analyzed. Thus, not even the donors knew whether their
samples were actually used.

The Human Genome Project was designed to generate a resource that could be
used for a broad range of biomedical studies. One such use is to look for the
genetic variations that increase risk of specific diseases, such as cancer, or
to look for the type of genetic mutations frequently seen in cancerous cells.
More research can then be done to fully understand how the genome functions
and to discover the genetic basis for health and disease.

  * What is the Human Genome Project?

The Human Genome Project, which was led at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) by the National Human Genome Research Institute, produced a very high-
quality version of the human genome sequence that is freely available in
public databases. That international project was successfully completed in
April 2003, under budget and more than two years ahead of schedule.

The sequence is not that of one person, but is a composite derived from
several individuals. Therefore, it is a "representative" or generic sequence.
To ensure anonymity of the DNA donors, more blood samples (nearly 100) were
collected from volunteers than were used, and no names were attached to the
samples that were analyzed. Thus, not even the donors knew whether their
samples were actually used.

The Human Genome Project was designed to generate a resource that could be
used for a broad range of biomedical studies. One such use is to look for the
genetic variations that increase risk of specific diseases, such as cancer, or
to look for the type of genetic mutations frequently seen in cancerous cells.
More research can then be done to fully understand how the genome functions
and to discover the genetic basis for health and disease.

## What are the implications for medical science?

Virtually every human ailment has some basis in our genes. Until recently,
doctors were able to take the study of genes, or genetics, into consideration
only in cases of birth defects and a limited set of other diseases. These were
conditions, such as sickle cell anemia, which have very simple, predictable
inheritance patterns because each is caused by a change in a single gene.

With the vast trove of data about human DNA generated by the Human Genome
Project and other genomic research, scientists and clinicians have more
powerful tools to study the role that multiple genetic factors acting together
and with the environment play in much more complex diseases. These diseases,
such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease constitute the majority
of health problems in the United States. Genome-based research is already
enabling medical researchers to develop improved diagnostics, more effective
therapeutic strategies, evidence-based approaches for demonstrating clinical
efficacy, and better decision-making tools for patients and providers.
Ultimately, it appears inevitable that treatments will be tailored to a
patient's particular genomic makeup. Thus, the role of genetics in health care
is starting to change profoundly and the first examples of the era of genomic
medicine are upon us.

It is important to realize, however, that it often takes considerable time,
effort, and funding to move discoveries from the scientific laboratory into
the medical clinic. Most new drugs based on genome-based research are
estimated to be at least 10 to 15 years away, though recent genome-driven
efforts in lipid-lowering therapy have considerably shortened that interval.
According to biotechnology experts, it usually takes more than a decade for a
company to conduct the kinds of clinical studies needed to receive approval
from the Food and Drug Administration.

Screening and diagnostic tests, however, are here. Rapid progress is also
being made in the emerging field of pharmacogenomics, which involves using
information about a patient's genetic make-up to better tailor drug therapy to
their individual needs.

Clearly, genetics remains just one of several factors that contribute to
people's risk of developing most common diseases. Diet, lifestyle, and
environmental exposures also come into play for many conditions, including
many types of cancer. Still, a deeper understanding of genetics will shed
light on more than just hereditary risks by revealing the basic components of
cells and, ultimately, explaining how all the various elements work together
to affect the human body in both health and disease.

  * What are the implications for medical science?

Virtually every human ailment has some basis in our genes. Until recently,
doctors were able to take the study of genes, or genetics, into consideration
only in cases of birth defects and a limited set of other diseases. These were
conditions, such as sickle cell anemia, which have very simple, predictable
inheritance patterns because each is caused by a change in a single gene.

With the vast trove of data about human DNA generated by the Human Genome
Project and other genomic research, scientists and clinicians have more
powerful tools to study the role that multiple genetic factors acting together
and with the environment play in much more complex diseases. These diseases,
such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease constitute the majority
of health problems in the United States. Genome-based research is already
enabling medical researchers to develop improved diagnostics, more effective
therapeutic strategies, evidence-based approaches for demonstrating clinical
efficacy, and better decision-making tools for patients and providers.
Ultimately, it appears inevitable that treatments will be tailored to a
patient's particular genomic makeup. Thus, the role of genetics in health care
is starting to change profoundly and the first examples of the era of genomic
medicine are upon us.

It is important to realize, however, that it often takes considerable time,
effort, and funding to move discoveries from the scientific laboratory into
the medical clinic. Most new drugs based on genome-based research are
estimated to be at least 10 to 15 years away, though recent genome-driven
efforts in lipid-lowering therapy have considerably shortened that interval.
According to biotechnology experts, it usually takes more than a decade for a
company to conduct the kinds of clinical studies needed to receive approval
from the Food and Drug Administration.

Screening and diagnostic tests, however, are here. Rapid progress is also
being made in the emerging field of pharmacogenomics, which involves using
information about a patient's genetic make-up to better tailor drug therapy to
their individual needs.

Clearly, genetics remains just one of several factors that contribute to
people's risk of developing most common diseases. Diet, lifestyle, and
environmental exposures also come into play for many conditions, including
many types of cancer. Still, a deeper understanding of genetics will shed
light on more than just hereditary risks by revealing the basic components of
cells and, ultimately, explaining how all the various elements work together
to affect the human body in both health and disease.

## Related Contents

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Current Slide Current Slide Current Slide

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Current Slide Current Slide

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Last updated: August 15, 2020

## Get Updates

Enter your email address to receive updates about the latest advances in
genomics research.

Email Address

I'm interested in:

News & Events

The Genomics Landscape

National DNA Day

2020 Strategic Planning Initiative

## Social Media Stream

[Follow Us](/social-media)

[ ![NIH logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NIH_mark_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.nih.gov/)

[ ![DHHS logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/DHHS_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.hhs.gov/)

[ ![USA Gov logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/US-GSA-USAGov-
Logo_white.svg) ](https://www.usa.gov/)

## Footer Links

  * [Contact](/about-nhgri/Contact)
  * [Accessibility](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Accessibility)
  * [Site Map](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Site-Map)
  * [Staff Search](/staff)
  * [FOIA](https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-liaison/freedom-information-act-office)
  * [Privacy](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Privacy)
  * [Copyright](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Copyright)

  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [MGM-Affiliated Graduate Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/)
      * [Immunology & Microbiology Journal Club (GMS 6921)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/immunology-microbiology-journal-club/)
      * [MGM Research Conference (GMS 7191)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/mgm-research-conference-gms-7191/)
    * [Training Program in Regenerative Medicine (NIH T32)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/)
      * [Regenerative Medicine Trainees](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/t32-trainees/)
    * [Affiliated Centers:](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/affiliated-centers/)
      * [Center for NeuroGenetics](http://neurogenetics.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Powell Gene Therapy Center](http://www.gtc.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [UF Genetics Institute](http://ufgi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [The Center of Excellence for Regenerative Health Biotechnology](http://www.cerhb.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://researchaffairs.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Postdoctoral Affairs](http://postdoc.aa.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/)
      * [Financial Support](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/admissions/financial-support/#new_tab)
        * [Minority support](http://graduateschool.ufl.edu/prospective-students/funding/minority/#new_tab)
      * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://idp.med.ufl.edu#new_tab)
      * [MGM MS Programs in the College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/)
        * [Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
        * [Masters in Medical Science](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/masters-in-medical-science/)
    * [Graduate Curriculum](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/curriculum/#new_tab)
    * [Medical Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/medical-courses/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
    * [Chair's office](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/)
      * [Dr. Henry V. Baker](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/dr-henry-v-baker/)
      * [Steve Howard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/steve-howard/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/kristyn-minkoff/)
      * [Deborah Burgess](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/deborah-burgess/)
      * [Tara McRee](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/taramcree/)
    * [Fiscal Services](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/)
      * [Julie Dillard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/julie-dillard/)
    * [GRANTS - CGRC](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/)
      * [Connie Philebaum](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/connie-philebaum/)
    * [Accounting](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/)
      * [Michele Ramsey](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/michele-ramsey/)
    * [Graduate Programs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/kristyn-minkoff/)
    * [MGM building locations and addresses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/)
      * [Academic Research Building](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/academic-research-building/)
      * [Cancer and Genetics Research Center](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/cancer-and-genetics-research-center/)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/emerging-pathogens-institute/)
    * [College of Medicine Events](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/college-of-medicine-events/)
    * [UF Travel and Reimbursement Guides](https://www.fa.ufl.edu/directives/helpful-handouts/#new_tab)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
    * [Faculty Home Pages](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Baker, Henry V](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Berns, Kenneth](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/kenneth-berns/)
      * [Bloom, David C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/david-c-bloom-p-h-d/)
      * [Cohn, Martin J](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/martin-j-cohn-ph-d/)
      * [Condit, Richard C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/condit-richard-c/)
      * [Gulig, Paul A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/gulig-paul-a/)
      * [Harfe, Brian](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/harfe-brian/)
      * [Jin, Shouguang](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/jin-shouguang/)
      * [Karst, Stephanie](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/karst-stephanie/)
      * [Lewin, Alfred S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/lewin-alfred-s/)
      * [Ma, Zhe](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ma-zhe/)
      * [McIntyre, Lauren](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/mcintyre-lauren/)
      * [Muzyczka, Nicholas](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/muzyczka-nicolas/)
      * [Ranum, Laura](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ranum-laura/)
      * [Renne, Rolf](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/renne-rolf/)
      * [Resnick, James](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/resnick-james/)
      * [Scott, Edward W.](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/scott-edward-w/)
      * [Swanson, Maurice S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/swanson-maurice-s/)
      * [Tibbetts, Scott A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/tibbetts-scott-a/)
      * [Wallace, Margaret (Peggy)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wallace-margaret-peggy/)
      * [Wang, Eric](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wang-eric/)
      * [Wu, Lizi](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wu-lizi/)
      * [Zhou, Lei](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/zhou-lei/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [Faculty Contact Information](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Research Faculty](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Research-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Joint Faculty](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2014/09/MGMPERS-Joint-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [Contacts](http://mgm.ufl.edu/contacts/)
    * [MGM Phone / Email listing](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2013/05/MGMPERS-Email-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM PostDocs](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-PostDocs-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM Grad Students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-GradStudents-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Webmail (MGM faculty/staff)](https://mail.ufl.edu/owa/auth/logon.aspx?replaceCurrent=1&url=https%3a%2f%2fmail.ufl.edu%2fowa#new_tab)
    * [myUFL](https://my.ufl.edu/ps/signon.html#new_tab)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * Additional Links
  * [Home](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * [Office Staffing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/?page_id=2801)
  * Connect with us
  * [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/UFHealth/)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/UFHealthScience/)
  * [Twitter](http://twitter.com/UFMedicine/)

  * [Text-only version of this website](http://assistive.usablenet.com/tt/http://mgm.ufl.edu)
  * Skip navigation
  * [Home page](/)
  * What's new
  * Search
  * [Contact Webmaster](http://webservices.ahc.ufl.edu/contact-webmaster/?website=http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
  * Website policies
  * [Disability services](http://www.ufl.edu/disability/)

![Menu](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/sb_btn.png) [ ![UF Health
Home](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/ufhealth-badge-responsive.png)
](https://ufhealth.org) ![Menu](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/search-button-responsive.png)

  * ![UF Health Home](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-content/themes/UFandShands/images/inst-home.png)
  * [Healing](https://ufhealth.org)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org)

    * [UF Health Shands Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-university-florida)
    * [UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-cancer-hospital-uf)
    * [Shands Emergency & Trauma](https://ufhealth.org/emergency-room-trauma-center)
    * [UF Health Shands Children's Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-hospital-children-uf)
    * [UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-rehab-hospital)
    * [UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-vista)
    * [Shands Community Hospitals](https://ufhealth.org/locations)
    * [UF Health Physicians](https://ufhealth.org/locations)
    * [Archer Family Health Care](http://afhc.nursing.ufl.edu/)
    * [Dental Clinics](https://ufhealth.org/search/locations/dentistry)
    * [Speech & Hearing](http://slhs.phhp.ufl.edu/clinics/)
    * [Student Health Care Center](http://shcc.ufl.edu/)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/)

    * [UF Health Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [UF Health North](http://north.ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [UF Health Proton Therapy Institute](http://www.floridaproton.org/)
    * [Primary Care Locations](http://primarycare.ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [Specialty Care Centers](http://ufhealthjax.org/locations/specialty-care.aspx)
    * [Physician Directory](http://ufhealthjax.org/directory)

### [Animal Health](http://hospitals.vetmed.ufl.edu/)

    * [Small Animal Hospital](http://smallanimal.vethospital.ufl.edu/)
    * [Large Animal Hospital](http://largeanimal.vethospitals.ufl.edu/)
    * [Veterinary Laboratories](http://labs.vetmed.ufl.edu)
    * [Veterinary Pharmacy](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/veterinary-hospitals/pharmacy/)

  * [Learning](https://ufhealth.org/education)

### [UF&Shands Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/education)

    * [College of Dentistry](http://www.dental.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Medicine](http://med.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Nursing](http://www.nursing.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Pharmacy](http://pharmacy.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Public Health & Health Professions](http://phhp.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Veterinary Medicine](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/)

    * [College of Medicine](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/college-of-medicine/)
    * [College of Nursing](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/college-of-nursing/)
    * [College of Pharmacy](http://pharmacy.ufl.edu/education/doctor-of-pharmacy-degree-pharmd/entry-level-pharmd/jacksonville-campus/)

  * [Discovery](https://ufhealth.org/research)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/research)

    * [Research Studies](http://www.ctsi.ufl.edu/community/become-a-research-participant/)
    * [Genetics Institute](http://www.ufgi.ufl.edu/)
    * [Institute on Aging](http://www.aging.ufl.edu/)
    * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/)
    * [UF Diabetes Institute](http://diabetes.ufl.edu)
    * [UF Health Cancer Center](http://cancer.ufl.edu/)
    * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/)
    * [Institute for Child Health Policy](http://ichp.ufl.edu/)
    * [Clinical and Translational Science Institute](http://ctsi.ufl.edu)

### [UF Health Jacksonville](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-
affairs/)

    * [Clinical Trials](http://hscj.ufl.edu/research/ClinicalTrials.aspx)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-affairs/)
    * [Institutional Review Board](http://hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-affairs/institutional-review-board)

###  [Animal Health](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/veterinary-hospitals/clinical-
trials/)

    * [Clinical Trials](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/clinical-trials/)
    * [Faculty Research Programs](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/research-programs/)
    * [Centers and Institutes](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/centers-institutes/)

  * [Community](https://ufhealth.org/community/)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/community/)

    * [Patient Programs](https://ufhealth.org/patient-programs)
    * [Volunteer](https://ufhealth.org/volunteering)
    * [Calendar](https://ufhealth.org/calendar/)
    * [News](https://ufhealth.org/news)
    * [Social Media](https://ufhealth.org/social-hub)
    * [Giving](http://giving.ufhealth.org/)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/Community/)

    * [Community Programs](http://ufhealthjax.org/education)
    * [Volunteer](http://ufhealthjax.org/volunteer/)
    * [Support Groups](http://ufhealthjax.org/community/support-groups-and-classes.aspx)
    * [Calendar](http://ufhealthjax.org/calendar/)
    * [News](http://ufhealthjax.org/news/)
    * [Social Media](http://ufhealthjax.org/social/)
    * [Giving](http://ufhealthjax.org/giving/)

### [Animal Health](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension/)

    * [Community Programs](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension-outreach/)
    * [Veterinary Extension](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension/)
    * [Support Groups](http://smallanimal.vethospital.ufl.edu/resources/pet-loss-support/)
    * [News](http://veterinarypage.vetmed.ufl.edu/)
    * [Social Media](https://ufhealth.org/social-hub)
    * [Giving](https://www.uff.ufl.edu/onlinegiving/vetmed.asp)

  * _[visit_ University of Florida](http://ufl.edu)

### [University of Florida

## Department _of_ Molecular Genetics & Microbiology

### College _of_ Medicine

](http://mgm.ufl.edu)

  * [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/UFHealth/)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/UFHealthScience/)
  * [Twitter](http://twitter.com/UFMedicine/)

  * [Home](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * [Office Staffing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/?page_id=2801)



  * [Home](/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)

    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [MGM-Affiliated Graduate Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/)
      * [Immunology & Microbiology Journal Club (GMS 6921)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/immunology-microbiology-journal-club/)
      * [MGM Research Conference (GMS 7191)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/mgm-research-conference-gms-7191/)
    * [Training Program in Regenerative Medicine (NIH T32)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/)
      * [Regenerative Medicine Trainees](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/t32-trainees/)
    * [Affiliated Centers:](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/affiliated-centers/)
      * [Center for NeuroGenetics](http://neurogenetics.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Powell Gene Therapy Center](http://www.gtc.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [UF Genetics Institute](http://ufgi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [The Center of Excellence for Regenerative Health Biotechnology](http://www.cerhb.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://researchaffairs.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Postdoctoral Affairs](http://postdoc.aa.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/)
      * [Financial Support](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/admissions/financial-support/#new_tab)
      * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://idp.med.ufl.edu#new_tab)
      * [MGM MS Programs in the College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/)
    * [Graduate Curriculum](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/curriculum/#new_tab)
    * [Medical Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/medical-courses/)

  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)

    * [Chair's office](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/)
      * [Dr. Henry V. Baker](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/dr-henry-v-baker/)
      * [Steve Howard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/steve-howard/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/kristyn-minkoff/)
      * [Deborah Burgess](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/deborah-burgess/)
      * [Tara McRee](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/taramcree/)
    * [Fiscal Services](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/)
      * [Julie Dillard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/julie-dillard/)
    * [GRANTS - CGRC](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/)
      * [Connie Philebaum](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/connie-philebaum/)
    * [Accounting](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/)
      * [Michele Ramsey](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/michele-ramsey/)
    * [Graduate Programs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/kristyn-minkoff/)
    * [MGM building locations and addresses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/)
      * [Academic Research Building](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/academic-research-building/)
      * [Cancer and Genetics Research Center](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/cancer-and-genetics-research-center/)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/emerging-pathogens-institute/)
    * [College of Medicine Events](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/college-of-medicine-events/)
    * [UF Travel and Reimbursement Guides](https://www.fa.ufl.edu/directives/helpful-handouts/#new_tab)

  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)

    * [Faculty Home Pages](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Baker, Henry V](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Berns, Kenneth](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/kenneth-berns/)
      * [Bloom, David C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/david-c-bloom-p-h-d/)
      * [Cohn, Martin J](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/martin-j-cohn-ph-d/)
      * [Condit, Richard C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/condit-richard-c/)
      * [Gulig, Paul A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/gulig-paul-a/)
      * [Harfe, Brian](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/harfe-brian/)
      * [Jin, Shouguang](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/jin-shouguang/)
      * [Karst, Stephanie](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/karst-stephanie/)
      * [Lewin, Alfred S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/lewin-alfred-s/)
      * [Ma, Zhe](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ma-zhe/)
      * [McIntyre, Lauren](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/mcintyre-lauren/)
      * [Muzyczka, Nicholas](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/muzyczka-nicolas/)
      * [Ranum, Laura](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ranum-laura/)
      * [Renne, Rolf](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/renne-rolf/)
      * [Resnick, James](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/resnick-james/)
      * [Scott, Edward W.](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/scott-edward-w/)
      * [Swanson, Maurice S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/swanson-maurice-s/)
      * [Tibbetts, Scott A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/tibbetts-scott-a/)
      * [Wallace, Margaret (Peggy)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wallace-margaret-peggy/)
      * [Wang, Eric](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wang-eric/)
      * [Wu, Lizi](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wu-lizi/)
      * [Zhou, Lei](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/zhou-lei/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [Faculty Contact Information](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Research Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Research-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Joint Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2014/09/MGMPERS-Joint-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)

  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [Contacts](http://mgm.ufl.edu/contacts/)

    * [MGM Phone / Email listing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2013/05/MGMPERS-Email-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM PostDocs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-PostDocs-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM Grad Students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-GradStudents-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Webmail (MGM faculty/staff)](https://mail.ufl.edu/owa/auth/logon.aspx?replaceCurrent=1&url=https%3a%2f%2fmail.ufl.edu%2fowa#new_tab)
    * [myUFL](https://my.ufl.edu/ps/signon.html#new_tab)

  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)

[Home](http://mgm.ufl.edu) [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
[Graduate Programs in Biomedical
Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/) [MGM MS Programs in the
College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-
programs/) **Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology**

# Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology



  * [Admissions Requirements](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/admission-requirements/)
  * [Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology Handbook](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2014/07/Masters-of-Science-in-Translational-Biotechnology-Handbook.pdf)



The Science Master‚Äôs Program in Translational Biotechnology is a two-year
thesis program that is interdisciplinary (biosciences and business), is
research intensive, has deep industry involvement, and includes a formal
internship at a company. Students will graduate with a major (Master of
Science in Medical Sciences) and a¬†grad Minor in Entrepreneurship limited to
GEB, ENT and FIN courses . The Masters of Science Program in Translational
Biotechnology has the support of the Provost, the Vice President for Research,
and Deans of the Colleges of Medicine and Business Administration.

The Program is focused on applied and translational research. Translational
Biotechnology includes drug/biologics/device product development,
manufacturing process development, assay development, toxicology studies,
quality systems (quality control and quality assurance), clinical trial
support, and regulatory compliance. These activities are essential for testing
new drugs/biologics/devices in humans and their subsequent commercialization.
Translational Biotechnology activities are foundational for companies, and are
increasingly gaining importance in the academic setting where new technologies
are being tested in humans prior to entering the commercial sector. Courses
incorporated into this unique Program encompass biotechnology science together
with regulatory compliance and best business practices. Graduate courses in
product development, regulatory compliance (cGMPs/GTPs/GLPs/GCPs), quality
systems (Quality control and Quality Assurance), process development,
analytical product testing, and biomanufacturing are essential topics for
creating scientists capable of sustaining translational research and
commercialization. Product development of biotechnological or biomedical
products including biopharmaceuticals; diagnostic test materials; enzymes,
antibodies, and other protein products; transgenic plants and animals; tissue
and cellular products, and biomedical implants and devices requires that
scientists have the knowledge to carefully complete procedures in compliance
with foreign and domestic regulations. Other features of the program are the
infusion of personal and professional skills (communication, documentation,
teamwork, interviewing, work ethic, etc), ethics and responsible conduct of
research, and international perspectives.

Deadline for applications is March 31 of the current year fall
admission.Applicants must meet the minimum requirements for the University of
Florida Graduate School: GPA 3.0 and a score on the Graduate Record Exam (GRE)
of 1000 Combined verbal and quantitative for the old scale, and a minimum
score of 300 for the new scale. Note that for students accepted into the
Masters the average GPA is 3.5, GRE is 310 (new) or 1220 (old). The program
requirements 3 letters of recommendation, a statement of purpose and
‚Äúofficial‚Äù transcripts.

#### Education and training

A foundation of the Program is a high-quality research project under the
direction of a skilled mentor, with supervision by a committee composed of
members of the University‚Äôs Graduate Research Faculty. Specialization may be
in any of the fields of research being pursued in the College of Medicine or
local biotechnology company.¬† During the first year of the program, students
will enroll in lecture courses and seminar course, and will begin working in a
mentor‚Äôs laboratory. The content of the lecture courses is intended to address
a need for a strong foundation in advanced level biology and chemistry that is
applied to biotechnology and biomedical product development. Courses are
available that bridge basic life sciences and applied research, and these have
been brought together with courses in business. Both the seminar series and
the lecture courses provide preparation for Master‚Äôs research which should be
well underway by the end of the second semester. The second year of graduate
study for the student is devoted to finishing the required courses and doing
research. Students may also enroll in additional courses, according to their
interests and backgrounds. Following the four semesters of coursework and
research, the students will be placed into internships companies not limited
to Flordia. Students will work together with steering committee members to
review available companies and associated projects, and a match will be made.

#### Degree Requirements:

Completion of the degree will require a total of 48 credit hours with 36
credit hours comprising biomedical coursework, laboratory research, and
internship for the major and 6 hours of business coursework for the minor.
Students will chose from several courses and course modules available at the
COM within the scope of the Program (student course choices will be reviewed
by the mentor, program coordinator, and program Director), and for the
business courses, students choose six credits from several options. These
courses are taught in seven week blocks. The courses include: financial
accounting, finance, economics, entrepreneurship, law, marketing, management,
and operations. An example of a program of study is shown in the table below,
and is not limited to the courses listed.

**Example Curriculum (48 total credits).**

**FALL YEAR 1 (9 cr)**

**SPRING YEAR 1 (9 cr)**

**SUMMER YEAR 1 (6 cr)**

GMS 6003 Res/Prof Devel¬† (1)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 7003 Responsible Conduct (1)

GEB 5215 professional Comm(2)

GMS 6506 Bio Drug Devel (1)

GMS 6905 Research (1)

¬†GMS 5905 Writing (1)

GMS 6905 Research (4)

FIN 6427 Measure/Manag Value (2)

ENT 6946 Entrepre Consult Proj (2)

VME Prin Mammalian Pharm¬† (4)

**FALL YEAR 2 (9 cr)**

**SPRING YEAR 2 (9 cr)**

**SUMMER YEAR 2 (6 cr)**

GMS 6893¬† Transln. Sci (2)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6943 Internship (3)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6029 Brain Journal Club (1)

¬†GMS 6971 Masters Research(3)

GMS 6059 Gene Therapy (1)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

BME 6522 Multi Vari Signal Proc (3)

FIN 6545 Fixed Income¬† (2)

¬†GMS 7794 Neuroscience Seminar (1)



The biomedical and business courses are brought together to create the
curriculum in the table above. In the classroom, students will learn the
profiles of major departments/areas (marketing, sales, finance,
administration, HR, production, manufacturing support, QC/QA, research and
development, regulatory affairs, clinical affairs, etc.), the operations of
each, and how they interact with each other and outside organizations. Each
key operation will be presented in a collection of learning media (classroom,
internet-based, case studies). The curriculum is focused on the regulatory
agencies, the regulations, developing & implementing quality systems,
regulatory compliance, document development, documentation systems and
control, process & facilities control, product release, auditing,
specifications setting, biologics/tissue/device /pharmaceutical manufacturing
technology, maintenance and calibration, process development/optimization,
analytical instrumentation, analytical/laboratory methods, pre-clinical
testing, and clinical trials design and conduct. The curriculum navigates the
corporate environment, and business and economic landscape with a focus on
markets, sales and marketing, supply chain, price controls, import/export
practices, and business operations in the context of, budgets, timelines,
available resources, business regulations, communication barriers, finance and
accounting, and legal constraints (intellectual property, contracts, etc).



Contact [MGM-GradEd@mgm.ufl.edu](mailto:MGM-GradEd@mgm.ufl.edu) for more
information, or phone 352-273-5935

### Contact the Department Office

Your Message (required)

Send Email ¬ª

![UF Health - University of Florida
Health](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-ufhealth-logo.jpg)

**Together** we discover. **Together** we teach.  
**Together** we care for our patients and our communities.  
**Together** we create unstoppable momentum.

![The University of Florida](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-uf-logo.jpg)

  
The Foundation for The Gator Nation

![Make a Gift](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-gift.jpg)

  * **[Log in](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/wordpress/wp-login.php) **
  * Updated August 28, 2020
  * [Contact Webmaster](http://webservices.ahc.ufl.edu/contact-webmaster/?website=http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
  * [Sitemap](/sitemap/)
  * This page uses [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics) ([Google Privacy Policy](http://www.google.com/intl/en_ALL/privacypolicy.html))
  * [Disclaimer & Permitted Use](https://ufhealth.org/disclaimer-and-permitted-use)
  * [Disability Services](http://www.ufl.edu/disability/)
  * [Security Policies](https://security.ufl.edu/)
  * [UF Privacy Policy](http://privacy.ufl.edu/privacystatement.html)
  * [Shands Privacy Policy](https://ufhealth.org/shands-privacy-policy)
  * (C) 2020 [University of Florida](http://www.ufl.edu)
  * UF Health is a collaboration of the University of Florida Health Science Center, Shands hospitals and other health care entities. 
  * (C)[ 2020](https://ufhealth.org/copyright-and-disclaimer) [University of Florida Health](https://ufhealth.org)

# Translational research

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to navigation Jump to search

Effort to build on basic scientific research

Not to be confused with [Translation studies](/wiki/Translation_studies).

**Translational research** ‚Äì a term often used interchangeably with **translational medicine** or **translational science** or **bench to bedside** ‚Äì is an effort to build on [basic scientific research](/wiki/Basic_research) to create new [therapies](/wiki/Therapies),[1] [medical procedures](/wiki/Medical_procedure), or [diagnostics](/wiki/Diagnostic). Basic [biomedical research](/wiki/Biomedical_research) is based on studies of [disease processes](/wiki/Pathophysiology) using, for example, [cell cultures](/wiki/Cell_culture) or [animal models](/wiki/Animal_model).[2] The [adjective](/wiki/Adjective) "translational" refers to the "[translation](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/translation)" (the term derives from the [Latin](/wiki/Latin) for "carrying over") of basic scientific findings in a laboratory setting into potential treatments for disease.[3][4][5][6]

## Contents

  * 1 Definitions
  * 2 Comparison to basic research or applied research
  * 3 Challenges and criticisms
  * 4 Facilities
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Definitions[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&se
ction=1)]

Translational medicine is defined by the European Society for Translational
Medicine (EUSTM) as "an interdisciplinary branch of the biomedical field
supported by three main pillars: benchside, bedside and community."[2]

It is defined for school-based education by the Education Futures
Collaboration (www.meshguides.org) as research which translates concepts to
classroom practice.[7] Examples of translational research are commonly found
in education subject association journals and in the MESHGuides which have
been designed for this purpose.[8]

Translational research applies findings from basic science to enhance human
health and well-being. Translational research adopts a scientific
investigation/ enquiry into a given problem facing medical/health practices to
surmount such problem which will helps to raise aggregate health
performance.[9] In a medical research context, it aims to "translate" findings
in fundamental research into medical practice and meaningful health outcomes.
Translational research implements a "bench-to-bedside", from laboratory
experiments through clinical trials to point-of-care patient applications,[10]
model, harnessing knowledge from basic sciences to produce new drugs, devices,
and treatment options for patients. The end point of translational research is
the production of a promising new treatment that can be used with practical
applications, that can then be used clinically or are able to be
commercialized.[3]

As a relatively new research discipline, translational research incorporates
aspects of both basic science and clinical research, requiring skills and
resources that are not readily available in a basic laboratory or clinical
setting. Translational research is conceived due to the elongated time often
taken to bring to bear discovered medical idea in practical terms in a health
system.[_[citation needed](/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed)_] It is for these
reasons that translational research is more effective in dedicated university
science departments or isolated, dedicated research centers.[11] Since 2009,
the field has had specialized journals, the _[American Journal of
Translational Research](/wiki/American_Journal_of_Translational_Research)_ and
_[Translational Research](/wiki/Translational_Research_\(journal\))_ dedicated
to translational research and its findings.

Translational research is broken down into different stages, including two-
stage (T1 and T2), four-stage (T1, T2, T3, and T4), and five-stage (T1, T2,
T3, T4, and T5) schemes. In a two-stage model, _T1 research_, refers to the
"bench-to-bedside" enterprise of translating knowledge from the basic sciences
into the development of new treatments and _T2 research_ refers to translating
the findings from clinical trials into everyday practice.[3] In a five-stage
scheme, T1 involves basic research, T2 involves pre-clinical research, T3
involves clinical research, T4 involves clinical implementation, and T5
involves implementation in the public health sphere. Waldman et al. propose a
scheme going from T0 to T5. T0 is laboratory (before human) research. In
T1-translation, new laboratory discoveries are first translated to human
application, which includes phase I & II clinical trials. In T2-translation,
candidate health applications progress through clinical development to
engender the evidence base for integration into clinical practice guidelines.
This includes phase III clinical trials. In T3-translation, dissemination into
community practices happens. T4-translation seeks to (1) advance scientific
knowledge to paradigms of disease prevention, and (2) move health practices
established in T3 into population health impact. Finally, T5-translation
focuses on improving the wellness of populations by reforming suboptimal
social structures.[12]

In a two-stage scheme, translational research includes two areas of
translation. One is the process of applying discoveries generated during
research in the laboratory, and in preclinical studies, to the development of
trials and studies in humans. The second area of translation concerns research
aimed at enhancing the adoption of best practices in the community. Cost-
effectiveness of prevention and treatment strategies is also an important part
of translational science.[3]

## Comparison to basic research or applied research[[edit](/w/index.php?title=
Translational_research&action=edit&section=2)]

[Basic research](/wiki/Basic_research) is the systematic study directed toward
greater [knowledge](/wiki/Knowledge) or understanding of the fundamental
aspects of [phenomena](/wiki/Phenomena) and is performed without thought of
practical ends. It results in general knowledge and understanding of nature
and its laws.[13]

Applied research is a form of systematic inquiry involving the practical
application of [science](/wiki/Science). It accesses and uses the research
communities' accumulated theories, knowledge, methods, and techniques, for a
specific, often state, [business](/wiki/Commerce), or [client-
driven](/wiki/Customer) purpose.[14]

In medicine, translational research is increasingly a separate research field.
A citation pattern between the applied and basic sides in cancer research
appeared around 2000.[15]

## Challenges and criticisms[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&
action=edit&section=3)]

Critics of translational research (to the exclusion of more basic research)
point to examples of important drugs that arose from fortuitous discoveries in
the course of basic research such as [penicillin](/wiki/Penicillin) and
[benzodiazepines](/wiki/Benzodiazepines),[16] and the importance of basic
research in improving our understanding of basic biological facts (e.g. the
function and structure of [DNA](/wiki/DNA)) that go on to transform applied
medical research.[17]

Examples of failed translational research in the pharmaceutical industry
include the failure of anti-aŒ≤ therapeutics in Alzheimer's disease.[18] Other
problems have stemmed from the widespread irreproducibility thought to exist
in translational research literature.[19]

## Facilities[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&sec
tion=4)]

In U.S., the [National Institutes of
Health](/wiki/National_Institutes_of_Health) has implemented a major national
initiative to leverage existing academic health center infrastructure through
the Clinical and Translational Science Awards. The [National Center for
Advancing Translational
Sciences](/wiki/National_Center_for_Advancing_Translational_Sciences) (NCATS)
was established on December 23, 2011.[20]

Although translational research is relatively new, it is being recognized and
embraced globally. Some major centers for translational research include:

  * About 60 hubs of the Clinical and Translational Science Awards program.[21]
  * [Translational Research Institute (Australia)](/wiki/Translational_Research_Institute_\(Australia\)), [Brisbane, Queensland](/wiki/Brisbane,_Queensland), [Australia](/wiki/Australia).
  * [Stanford University Medical Center](/wiki/Stanford_University_Medical_Center), [Stanford, California](/wiki/Stanford,_California), United States.
  * [Translational Genomics Research Institute](/wiki/Translational_Genomics_Research_Institute), [Phoenix, Arizona](/wiki/Phoenix,_Arizona), United States.
  * [Maine Medical Center](/wiki/Maine_Medical_Center) in [Portland, Maine](/wiki/Portland,_Maine), United States has a dedicated translational research institute.[22]
  * [Scripps Research Institute](/wiki/Scripps_Research_Institute#Scripps_Florida), [Florida](/wiki/Florida), United States, has a dedicated translational research institute.[23]
  * [UC Davis Clinical and Translational Science Center](/wiki/UC_Davis), [Sacramento, California](/wiki/Sacramento,_California)[24]
  * [Clinical and Translational Science Institute, University of Pittsburgh](/wiki/University_of_Pittsburgh), [Pittsburgh](/wiki/Pittsburgh), [Pennsylvania](/wiki/Pennsylvania)[25]

Additionally, translational research is now acknowledged by some universities
as a dedicated field to study a PhD or graduate certificate in, in a medical
context. These institutes currently include [Monash
University](/wiki/Monash_University) in [Victoria,
Australia](/wiki/Victoria,_Australia),[26] the [University of
Queensland](/wiki/University_of_Queensland), Diamantina Institute in
[Brisbane, Australia](/wiki/Brisbane,_Australia),[27] at [Duke
University](/wiki/Duke_University) in [Durham, North
Carolina](/wiki/Durham,_North_Carolina), [America](/wiki/United_States),[28]
at [Creighton University](/wiki/Creighton_University) in [Omaha,
Nebraska](/wiki/Omaha,_Nebraska)[29] at [Emory
University](/wiki/Emory_University) in [Atlanta,
Georgia](/wiki/Atlanta,_Georgia),[30] and at [31][The George Washington
University](/wiki/The_George_Washington_University) in [Washington,
D.C.](/wiki/Washington,_D.C.). The industry and academic interactions to
promote translational science initiatives has been carried out by various
global centers such as [European Commission](/wiki/European_Commission),
[GlaxoSmithKline](/wiki/GlaxoSmithKline) and [Novartis](/wiki/Novartis)
Institute for [Biomedical Research](/wiki/Biomedical_Research).[32]

## See
also[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&section=5)]

  * [Biological engineering](/wiki/Biological_engineering)
  * _[Clinical and Translational Science](/wiki/Clinical_and_Translational_Science)_ (journal)
  * [Clinical trials](/wiki/Clinical_trials)
  * [Personalized medicine](/wiki/Personalized_medicine)
  * [Systems biology](/wiki/Systems_biology)
  * [Translational research informatics](/wiki/Translational_research_informatics)

## References[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&sec
tion=6)]

  1. **^** Mahla RS (2016). ["Stem Cells Applications in Regenerative Medicine and Disease Therapeutics"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4969512). _International Journal of Cell Biology_. **2016** (7): 19. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1155/2016/6940283](https://doi.org/10.1155%2F2016%2F6940283). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[4969512](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4969512). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[27516776](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27516776).CS1 maint: uses authors parameter ([link](/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_uses_authors_parameter))
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Cohrs RJ, Martin T, Ghahramani P, Bidaut L, Higgins PJ, Shahzad A (2014). ["Translational Medicine definition by the European Society for Translational Medicine"](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nhtm.2014.12.002). _New Horizons in Translational Medicine_. **2** (3): 86‚Äì88. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.nhtm.2014.12.002](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.nhtm.2014.12.002).
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Woolf SH (January 2008). "The meaning of translational research and why it matters". _JAMA_. **299** (2): 211‚Äì3. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1001/jama.2007.26](https://doi.org/10.1001%2Fjama.2007.26). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[18182604](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18182604).
  4. **^** Reis SE, Berglund L, Bernard GR, Califf RM, Fitzgerald GA, Johnson PC (March 2010). ["Reengineering the national clinical and translational research enterprise: the strategic plan of the National Clinical and Translational Science Awards Consortium"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2829722). _Academic Medicine_. **85** (3): 463‚Äì9. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1097/acm.0b013e3181ccc877](https://doi.org/10.1097%2Facm.0b013e3181ccc877). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[2829722](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2829722). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[20182119](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20182119).
  5. **^** Science Careers Staff (2011). ["Careers in Clinical and Translational Research"](http://www.sciencemag.org/careers/2011/04/careers-clinical-and-translational-research). _Science_. Retrieved March 24, 2018.
  6. **^** Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (2017). ["Translating Research Into Practice"](http://www.ahrq.gov/research/findings/factsheets/translating/index.html). _www.ahrq.gov_. Retrieved March 25, 2018.
  7. **^** Burden K, Younie S, Leask M (October 2013). "Translational research principles applied to education: the mapping educational specialist knowhow (MESH) initiative". _Journal of Education for Teaching_. **39** (4): 459‚Äì463. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1080/02607476.2013.801216](https://doi.org/10.1080%2F02607476.2013.801216).
  8. **^** Younie S (2016). "Mapping Educational Specialist knowHow (MESH)". _International Teacher Education Knowledge Mobilisation Summit: a framework for UNESCO SDG4 2030_. London: Whitehall.
  9. **^** Akarowhe K (2018) Translational Research: Definitions and Relevance. J Biol Med Res Vol.2 No.2:13
  10. **^** ["What is Translational Science"](http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1149350). _tuftsctsi.org_. Tufts Clinical and Translational Science Institute. Retrieved 9 June 2015.
  11. **^** Pober JS, Neuhauser CS, Pober JM (November 2001). "Obstacles facing translational research in academic medical centers". _FASEB Journal_. **15** (13): 2303‚Äì13. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1096/fj.01-0540lsf](https://doi.org/10.1096%2Ffj.01-0540lsf). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[11689456](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11689456).
  12. **^** Waldman, Scott A.; Terzic, Andre (2010-10-01). ["Clinical and Translational Science: From Bench-Bedside to Global Village"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5439613). _Clinical and Translational Science_. **3** (5): 254‚Äì257. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1111/j.1752-8062.2010.00227.x](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1752-8062.2010.00227.x). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_\(identifier\))¬†[1752-8062](//www.worldcat.org/issn/1752-8062). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[5439613](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5439613). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[20973923](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20973923).
  13. **^** "What is basic research?" (PDF). National Science Foundation. Retrieved 2014-05-31.
  14. **^** Roll-Hansen N (April 2009). [Why the distinction between basic (theoretical) and applied (practical) research is important in the politics of science](http://www.lse.ac.uk/CPNSS/research/concludedResearchProjects/ContingencyDissentInScience/DP/DPRoll-HansenOnline0409.pdf) (PDF) (Report). The London School of Economics and Political Science. Retrieved November 30, 2013.
  15. **^** Cambrosio A, Keating P, Mercier S, Lewison G, Mogoutov A (December 2006). "Mapping the emergence and development of translational cancer research". _European Journal of Cancer_. **42** (18): 3140‚Äì8. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.ejca.2006.07.020](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.ejca.2006.07.020). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[17079135](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17079135).
  16. **^** Tone, Andrea (2009). _The Age of Anxiety: the History of America's Love Affairs with Tranquilizers_.
  17. **^** Ashutosh Jogalekar (November 26, 2012). ["The perils of translational research"](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/the-curious-wavefunction/2012/11/26/the-perils-of-translational-research/). _Scientific American Blog Network_.
  18. **^** Golde TE, Schneider LS, Koo EH (January 2011). ["Anti-aŒ≤ therapeutics in Alzheimer's disease: the need for a paradigm shift"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3058906). _Neuron_. **69** (2): 203‚Äì13. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.neuron.2011.01.002](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.neuron.2011.01.002). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[3058906](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3058906). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[21262461](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21262461).
  19. **^** Prinz F, Schlange T, Asadullah K (August 2011). ["Believe it or not: how much can we rely on published data on potential drug targets?"](https://doi.org/10.1038/nrd3439-c1). _Nature Reviews. Drug Discovery_. **10** (9): 712. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1038/nrd3439-c1](https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fnrd3439-c1). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[21892149](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21892149).
  20. **^** ["–ù–æ–≤–æ—Å—Ç–∏ –ú—é–Ω—Ö–µ–Ω–∞ –∏ –ì–µ—Ä–º–∞–Ω–∏–∏"](http://www.ctsaweb.org/). _CTSA Web_.
  21. **^** ["Clinical and Translational Science Awards Program Hubs"](http://www.ncats.nih.gov/ctsa/about/hubs). _www.ncats.nih.gov_. National Institutes for Health. Retrieved 31 March 2016.
  22. **^** ["Maine Medical Center Research Institute attracts top scientists, licenses discoveries"](http://www.mainebiz.biz/article/20150615/CURRENTEDITION/306119996/maine-medical-center-research-institute-attracts-top-scientists-licenses-discoveries). _www.mainebiz.biz_. Mainebiz. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  23. **^** ["Translational Research Institute"](https://www.scripps.edu/research/tri/). _www.scripps.edu_. The Scripps Research Institute. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  24. **^** UC Davis Health System, Clinical and Translational Science Center. ["UC Davis Clinical and Translational Science Center: About Us"](http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/ctsc/aboutus/).
  25. **^** <https://ctsi.pitt.edu/about-us/>
  26. **^** ["Translational Research ‚Äì PhD and Graduate Certificate"](http://www.med.monash.edu.au/cecs/education/translational-research.html). _www.med.monash.edu.au_. Monash University. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  27. **^** ["MPhil in Translational Research"](http://www.di.uq.edu.au/mphil-translational-research). _www.di.uq.edu.au_. University of Queensland Diamantina Institute. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  28. **^** ["Clinical and Translational Research"](http://medschool.duke.edu/research/clinical-and-translational-research). _medschool.duke.edu_. Duke University. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  29. **^** ["Center for Clinical and Translational Science"](http://medschool.creighton.edu/medicine/centers/cts/). _medschool.creighton.edu_. Creighton University. Retrieved 14 July 2015.
  30. **^** ["Certificate Program in Translational"](http://www.gs.emory.edu/sites/translational/). Emory University. Retrieved 4 Jan 2018.
  31. **^** ["PhD in Translational Health Sciences"](https://smhs.gwu.edu/translational-health-sciences/). _smhs.gwu.edu_. The George Washington University. Retrieved 9 June 2019.
  32. **^** ["Novartis"](http://www.worldpharmanews.com/novartis/1858-novartis-appoints-timothy-wright-md-as-global-head-development-novartis-pharmaceuticals). _World Pharma News_.

## External
links[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&section=7)]

  * [Translational Research Institute](http://www.tri.edu.au)
  * [NIH Roadmap](https://web.archive.org/web/20100611171315/http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/)
  * [American Journal of Translational Research](http://www.ajtr.org/)
  * [Center for Comparative Medicine and Translational Research](http://www.cvm.ncsu.edu/ccmtr/)
  * [OSCAT2012](http://crdd.osdd.net/oscat/): Conference on translational medicine

![](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from "[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational_rese
arch&oldid=956123012](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational
_research&oldid=956123012)"

[Categories](/wiki/Help:Category):

  * [Medical research](/wiki/Category:Medical_research)
  * [Research](/wiki/Category:Research)
  * [Translational medicine](/wiki/Category:Translational_medicine)
  * [Nursing research](/wiki/Category:Nursing_research)

Hidden categories:

  * [CS1 maint: uses authors parameter](/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_uses_authors_parameter)
  * [Articles with short description](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_short_description)
  * [Short description is different from Wikidata](/wiki/Category:Short_description_is_different_from_Wikidata)
  * [All articles with unsourced statements](/wiki/Category:All_articles_with_unsourced_statements)
  * [Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_unsourced_statements_from_November_2019)

## Navigation menu

###  Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * [Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk)
  * [Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions)
  * [Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Translational+research)
  * [Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Translational+research)

###  Namespaces

  * [Article](/wiki/Translational_research)
  * [Talk](/wiki/Talk:Translational_research)

###  Variants

###  Views

  * [Read](/wiki/Translational_research)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit)
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=history)

###  More

###  Search

###  Navigation

  * [Main page](/wiki/Main_Page)
  * [Contents](/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents)
  * [Current events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events)
  * [Random article](/wiki/Special:Random)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Contact us](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Donate](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en)
  * [Wikipedia store](//shop.wikimedia.org)

###  Contribute

  * [Help](/wiki/Help:Contents)
  * [Community portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal)
  * [Recent changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)

###  Tools

  * [What links here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Translational_research)
  * [Related changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Translational_research)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)
  * [Special pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages)
  * [Permanent link](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&oldid=956123012)
  * [Page information](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=info)
  * [Cite this page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Translational_research&id=956123012&wpFormIdentifier=titleform)
  * [Wikidata item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q474859)

###  Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Translational_research&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&printable=yes)

###  Languages

  * [ÿßŸÑÿπÿ±ÿ®Ÿäÿ©](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A8%D8%AD%D9%88%D8%AB_%D9%85%D8%AA%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%85%D8%A9)
  * [ŸÅÿßÿ±ÿ≥€å](https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%DA%98%D9%88%D9%87%D8%B4%E2%80%8C%D9%87%D8%A7%DB%8C_%DA%A9%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%A8%D8%B1%D8%AF%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D8%B3%D8%A7%D8%B2%DB%8C)
  * [Galego](https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Investigaci%C3%B3n_traslacional)
  * [Êó•Êú¨Ë™û](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%A9%8B%E6%B8%A1%E3%81%97%E7%A0%94%E7%A9%B6)
  * [Svenska](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translationell_forskning)

[Edit links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q474859
#sitelinks-wikipedia)

  * This page was last edited on 11 May 2020, at 16:37¬†(UTC).
  * Text is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License); additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the [Terms of Use](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use) and [Privacy Policy](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy). Wikipedia¬Æ is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.](//www.wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit organization.
  * [Privacy policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer)
  * [Contact Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Mobile view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile)
  * [Developers](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute)
  * [Statistics](https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org)
  * [Cookie statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement)
  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.png)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/static/images/footer/poweredby_mediawiki_88x31.png)

Skip to main content

Advertisement

[ ![Advertisement](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad/ad?iu=/285/geneticsinmedi
cine.nature.com/article&sz=728x90&c=78098613&t=pos%3Dtop%26type%3Darticle%26ar
tid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine,
general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad
/jump?iu=/285/geneticsinmedicine.nature.com/article&sz=728x90&c=78098613&t=pos
%3Dtop%26type%3Darticle%26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211000
-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with
limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a
more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer).
In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site
without styles and JavaScript.

[ ![Genetics in Medicine](//media.springernature.com/full/nature-
cms/uploads/product/gim/header-0241c1c390bf6361909b8c3f5fb8546f.svg) ](/gim)

Search [ My Account ](/nams/svc/myaccount) [ Login ](https://idp.nature.com/au
thorize/natureuser?client_id=grover&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nature.com%
2Farticles%2Fgim200275)

  * Explore our content
  * Journal information

  1. [ nature](/)
  2. [ genetics in medicine](/gim)
  3. [ acmg presidential address](/gim/articles?type=acmg-presidential-address)
  4. article

Translational genomics in medical genetics

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

  * Published: November 2002

# Translational genomics in medical genetics

  * Edward R B Mccabe1,2¬†

_[Genetics in Medicine_](/gim) **volume¬†4**,¬†pages468‚Äì471(2002)Cite this
article

  * 292 Accesses

  * 6 Citations

  * 0 Altmetric

  * [Metrics details](/articles/gim200275/metrics)

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

## Main

I want to thank you very much for giving me the honor of serving you as the
President of the American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) during 2001 and
2002. I consider myself extremely privileged for you to have placed your trust
in me.

The ACMG is the organization within clinical genetics that is responsible for
education and policy. Last year in my presidential address I argued that we
blend exacting science with compassion and advocacy in the care of our
patients, and we must work individually and collectively to ensure full and
equal access to genetic information and genetic health
professionals.[1](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR1) This year I will discuss the
critical need for medical geneticists to be the leaders in translating genomic
information for practical medical use.

The premise underlying my presentation is that for the Human Genome Project to
have its fullest impact, its products in the form of sequence and concepts
must be translated for use in clinical medicine. Translational genomics will
be the result of this endeavor, and medical geneticists should be the leaders
in this arena.

The success of translational genomics will depend on our ability to discern
the complexity of interactions among genes, gene products, and the
environment. A full understanding of this complexity will depend upon new ways
of considering genetics in the genomic era. This will require an intermingling
of concepts from biology, engineering, and information systems, and
comparisons within and between genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, and
metabolomes.

We are already seeing a shifting focus in medical genetics from rare to common
diseases. I will argue, however, that translational genomics teaches us that
the differences between rare and common diseases are not so extreme, because
in fact there are a multitude of genotypes for ‚Äúcommon disease‚Äù phenotypes. If
we are to improve significantly the care of our patients with rare and common
genetic diseases, then we must develop collaborative, multi-institutional,
protocol-driven clinical studies.

### Human Genome Project and translational genomics

Genetics has come a long way in less than 50 years, from the original
identification of the double helical structure of DNA by Watson and
Crick[2](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR2) in April 1953, to the drafts of the
human genome published by the public[3](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR3) and
private[4](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR4) efforts in February 2001.

Initiated in 1990, the completion of the public Human Genome Project was
originally planned for 2005. However, the finished sequence is anticipated for
spring 2003, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Watson and Crick
publication.[2](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR2)

The results of the Human Genome Project will involve not only the complete
sequencing of the human genome, but also the creation of a new branch of
science and medicine, genomics, as well as a series of derivative disciplines.
If a genome is all of the DNA for an organism, then genomics is the study of
that genome and its implications. Derivative disciplines include
transcriptomics, the study of the transcriptome, representing all of the
transcripts or RNA copies of the genes in a cell, tissue, or individual;
proteomics, the study of the proteome, representing all of the proteins in a
cell, tissue, or individual; and metabolomics, the study of the metabolome,
representing all of the molecular components of a cell, tissue, or individual
that are produced by the proteins of the proteome. Additional derivative
disciplines are being and will continue to be described.

Genomics, its derivative disciplines, and the synthesis of this information
will generate the complete parts' lists and the parts' assembly instructions
for a fully functioning organism.

The promise of the Human Genome Project is improved diagnosis and treatment
through the application of genomic information and technologies, leading to
predictive medicine and individualized medical care.[5](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR5) Genomic medicine will be predictive rather than reactive. It will be
preventive in its philosophical orientation, rather than the more traditional
medical approach of responding only after acute presentation. The predictive
and preventive nature of genomic medicine will lead to screening of
populations, subpopulations, and individuals for genetic predispositions to
rare and common disorders.

Medical geneticists should be the translators for genomic medicine. The ACMG,
with its roles in education and policy formation, gives our membership the
venue in which to organize these translational efforts. We must prepare
ourselves for our roles in translational genomics by addressing the complexity
of biological systems.

### Complexity of interactions between genes, gene products, and environment

The disciplines of genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics are
already changing our concepts regarding the organization of biological
systems. Many of us thought of biochemical pathways as an interconnection of
enzymes and metabolites in a relatively homogeneously connected network. We
have learned that such systems are referred to as exponential networks, in
which the probability of a node's having increasing connectivity falls as an
exponential function.[6](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR6),[7](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR7) Robust biological and human-designed systems have the hub-and-spoke
architecture of scale-free networks. These scale-free networks are more
heterogeneous in their connectivity, with most nodes having one or a very few
contacts, and only rare nodes being highly connected. Examples of scale-free
networks include the Internet[6](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR6) and natural
proteomes.[8](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR8)

Scale-free networks are highly robust, meaning that it is difficult to
fragment such networks.[7](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR7) Communications between
nodes are unaffected by very high failure rates, since most of the nodes have
very low connectivity. If a node is lost, then there is a very high
probability that this node will have been connected to only one other node,
and while this connection will fail, there is a very low probability that the
overall function of the network will be compromised.

The structural features that give scale-free networks their robust properties,
however, are also the source of their vulnerability. The highly connected
nodes, although quite rare, are critical to network function. Failure of these
highly connected nodes, such as by a mutation in a biological scale-free
network, will fragment the network and threaten the survival of the network.
Considerations of the error and attack tolerance, as well as the
vulnerabilities of scale-free networks, are essential to our understanding of
the pathogenesis of genetic diseases.[7](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR7),[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR9) Such considerations require a global
view of an organism's functional components and their integration, informed,
for example, by a knowledge of that organism's genome, transcriptome,
proteome, and metabolome.

#### Intermingling of biology, engineering, and information systems

Our thinking about the complexity of cellular and organismic biology will
require us to move from molecular to modular concepts.[10](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR10) Within this modular view of biology, the components will have
properties that we will recognize to be similar to those in engineering and
computer science. Recent evidence has shown that a biological system may be
constructed that will function as an oscillator[11](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR11) or a toggle switch.[12](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR12) This modular view
of biology will require the formulation of new models and general principles
if we are to achieve an improved ability to appreciate and manipulate these
functional modules.[10](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR10)

The Human Genome Project is also bringing about major changes in
bioinformatics. Many think that, while the sequencing efforts represent a
major scientific accomplishment, the real ‚Äúgenomics revolution‚Äù is in the
ability to manage and analyze the information contained within the sequence.
The ongoing efforts in sequencing and informatics will permit translation for
improved medical care, although there is a substantial amount of work to be
done before practicable translation is available to individuals.

If the sequencing of an individual's genome would be available for $1,000,
then let us consider some of the issues that would accompany the translation
of this information for medical decision-making by that individual. For any
data acquisition there is inevitably an error rate, and this will be true for
genomic sequence. Even if the error rate is quite low, the size of the genome
is such that numerous errors are anticipated until the cost is so low that
multiple repetitions are possible. For example, if sequencing is 99.99%
accurate, this would result in an error every 10,000 nucleotides, or with a
human genome of approximately 3.2 billion base pairs the number of errors
would exceed 300,000. Interpretation of sequence variation between individuals
would have to consider differences due to technical errors as well as natural
polymorphisms. In addition, interpretation of an individual's genomic sequence
will require a better understanding of complexity in biology, from the
multiple functions of individual proteins to a modular view of biological
networks. Beyond the technical and biological considerations in the use of the
genomic sequence information are ethical, legal, and social issues. The cost
of $1,000 that we have set arbitrarily would be affordable for some and
absolutely inaccessible for others. For those who could afford to have their
genomes sequenced, there would be the issues of privacy and discrimination,
and how this information could be stored in a manner that would ensure
fidelity and accessibility without compromising
insurability.[1](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR1)

#### Comparisons within and between genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, and
metabolomes

Comparisons of sequences within and between organisms may be quite powerful.
Such comparisons are quite common and useful for DNA coding sequences and
deduced amino acid sequences, for which similarities and differences define
and distinguish, for example, functional domains and gene families.
Comparisons among noncoding sequences may identify and distinguish regulatory
elements. Other conserved blocks of noncoding sequences are being recognized,
but for many of these conserved regions their functions remain to be
identified. A fuller understanding of function and interrelationships
throughout the genome, transcriptome, and proteome and their impact on the
metabolome will be required for interpretation of sequence differences within
an individual's genome.

Functional comparisons must be made at all levels, but at this time are
focusing on the proteome and metabolome. Studies in microorganisms can give us
insight into principles underlying the robustness of all biological systems.
Growth of _Escherichia coli_ on glucose was analyzed to determine which
enzymes contributed most strongly to the robust properties of this metabolic
system.[13](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR13) Flux limits for enzymatic reactions
were examined below which growth on glucose was compromised, and these enzymes
were classified into three groups: pentose phosphate pathway, three-carbon
glycolytic pathway, and tricarboxylic acid cycle. For the pentose phosphate
pathway and tricarboxylic acid cycle, growth was not compromised until
residual flux fell to ‚âà15‚Äì30% of normal. For the three-carbon glycolytic
pathway, however, growth was compromised when flux fell to only 63% of normal,
indicating that this region of metabolism was much more sensitive to
variation. Therefore, while growth of _E. coli_ on glucose is in general a
highly robust property, not all components are equally resistant to
perturbation.

Comparisons of the large-scale organization of metabolic networks between
organisms also may give insight into the robustness of biological systems. The
metabolic networks of 43 organisms were compared quantitatively for 43
organisms representative of archae, bacteria, and
eukaryotes.[14](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR14) Significant differences in the
pathways were observed among these organisms, but the overall design
properties were quite similar. The investigators speculated that the scale-
free topological organization was the common design-element in these organisms
and that this organization contributed to the common feature of robust
tolerance to variation among these very different organisms.

#### _DAX1_ deficiency and pertubation in a complex network

Dosage-sensitive sex reversal, adrenal hypoplasia congenta, on the X
chromosome, gene 1 (_DAX1_), is the nuclear receptor family member encoded by
the _NROB1_ gene.[15](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR15) Loss of _DAX1_ function by
deletion or point mutation causes disruption of the normal development of the
steroidogenic axis leading to adrenal hypoplasia congenita associated with
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. The key question is how the loss of a single
gene product results in the compromise of a robust developmental system.

Traditionally we have thought of blocks in metabolic pathways as analogous to
the damming of a flow of water with a buildup behind the dam and overflow into
side channels, and of blocks in transcriptional cascades as interruption of
signal transfer. Consideration of the complexity of developmental networks,
however, gives us a different view of the effects of mutations. _DAX1_ is a
node in a complex network with a high level of
connectivity.[16](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR16) Loss of _DAX1_ function would
not simply compromise a one-dimensional transcriptional cascade, but we would
speculate that mutation of _DAX1_ would compromise the function of each of the
transcription factors distal to it in the network, and therefore an entire
sector of the transcriptional network would be lost.[16](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR16)

### Shifting focus from rare to common diseases

Some consider the shift in focus within medical genetics from rare, Mendelian
diseases to common, complex disorders as a paradigm shift. We must consider,
however, that rare and common disorders, or ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene and multigenic
diseases, respectively, represent points on a continuum and not distinct
entities.[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR9),[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR17)‚Äì[19](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR19)

#### Multitude of genotypes even for common disease phenotypes

Complexity is the rule for the phenotypes of ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian traits, as
well as for common, multigenic disorders.[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR9),[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR17)‚Äì[20](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR20) In
a Mendelian or ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene disorder, there is one gene that exerts a primary
effect, but the phenotype in the individual patient is influenced by
additional modifier genes.[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR17)‚Äì[19](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR19) As a single gene loses its primary
effect and the influences of two or more genes begin to be approximately
coequal, the disorder is recognized as multigenic. Such multigenic diseases
may also be referred to as ‚Äúcomplex‚Äù diseases, but this terminology denies the
fundamental complexity of the ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene diseases. The major portion of the
common disorders, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes
mellitus, are presumed to be multigenic with superimposition of environmental
influences.

Since the phenotypes of the ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian disorders represent the
influences of the primary genetic abnormality and additional modifier genes,
and those for multigenic disorders clearly involve the influences of multiple
genes, and both have additional environmental influences, therefore the
phenotypes of individuals in all categories of genetic disorders will be
determined by the individuals' extended genotypes. In other words, each
individual, regardless of the type of genetic disease they experience, are
influenced by their unique genotype and environmental experience.

For Mendelian disorders, although there may be a group of modifier genes that
may influence the phenotype, not every modifier gene will be involved in each
patient. Similarly, for the multigenic disorders, if there are large groups of
genes that may be involved in the pathogenesis, only a subset of these will be
involved in any individual patient. Therefore, any genetic disease will be
composed of individuals with rare composite genotypes, and we can develop
similar approaches for the acquisition of an evidence base across all genetic
disorders.

#### Development of collaborative, multi-institutional, protocol-driven
clinical studies

The use of clinical studies involving collaborations between multiple
institutions with strict adherence to protocols developed by consensus among
the participating investigators represents the approach that will optimize
progress toward a sound evidence base when individual patients are rare. We
have determined that even for common disorders, those with an identical
composite genotype will be rare; therefore, such an approach will be just as
valid for rare disorders as for common diseases.

One example from genetics is the multi-institutional, randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled investigation of the value of penicillin prophylaxis
in patients with sickle cell disease.[21](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR21)
Accumulation of a significant number of patients with sickle cell disease from
a number of centers in a carefully controlled, protocol-driven study permitted
the very clear conclusion to be drawn that penicillin did benefit patients
with sickle cell disease. In fact, the statistical power of the study was so
strong that the study was terminated earlier than anticipated when the data
indicated that the patients on placebo were at risk for sepsis and death far
in excess of those on penicillin prophylaxis. The consequence of this well-
controlled study was the conclusion by a National Institutes of Health
Consensus Development Conference that all neonates should be screened for
sickle cell disease in order to identify those with this disorder and initiate
penicillin prophylaxis to prevent the morbidity and mortality associated with
clinical presentation in the absence of a diagnosis.[22](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR22)

Perhaps the most successful example of a multi-institutional, protocol-driven
clinical collaboration is the Children's Oncology Group (COG). It is estimated
that at least 85% of children with cancer are enrolled in COG protocols, and
if those involved with natural history studies are included, the enrollment
may be as high as 95%. The involvement of such a high proportion of children
with cancer in clinical trials by COG and its predecessors permits an
iterative approach to improvements in interventions and has been credited with
the remarkable success that has been achieved in pediatric cancer outcomes.

The highly individualistic approach that characterizes much of American
medicine, including medical genetics, provides the practitioner with
management autonomy. If we argue that pooling of patients into collaborative,
protocol-driven clinical studies will facilitate progress, then the conclusion
would be that the lack of collaboration by autonomous physicians delays
progress unnecessarily. To be successful, an organized national approach to
develop collaborative studies in medical genetics will require ‚Äúbuy-in‚Äù by the
clinical genetics community (with associated loss of practitioner autonomy)
and adequate resources to support the protocols (including patient enrollment
and support, data analyses, and iterative interventional changes).

### Summary and conclusions

The need for translational research has received considerable recent
attention. Medical geneticists and the ACMG have the opportunity to establish
a model for translational studies for the medical community through
collaborative natural history studies and interventional clinical trials.
Medical genetics will become the clinical embodiment of the Human Genome
Project if we are successful in transliterating genomic sequences and concepts
into the language of medicine. Optimal care for our patients and those of our
colleagues in other specialties of medicine will require that medical
geneticists continue to accept the responsibility for translational genomics.

## References

  1. 1

McCabe ERB . Clinical genetics: compassion, access, science, and advocacy.
_Genet Med_ 2001; **3**: 426‚Äì429.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADC%252BD3MnmvVylug%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1097%2F00125817-200111000-00009)¬† [ Google Schola
r](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Clinical%20genetics%3A%20co
mpassion%2C%20access%2C%20science%2C%20and%20advocacy&journal=Genet%20Med&volu
me=3&pages=426-429&publication_year=2001&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  2. 2

Watson JD . Molecular structure of nucleic acids: a structure for deoxyribose
nucleic acid. _Nature_ 1953; **171**: 737‚Äì738.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaG2cXivVGktA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F171737a0)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Molecular%20structure%20of%20nucleic%20acid
s%3A%20a%20structure%20for%20deoxyribose%20nucleic%20acid&journal=Nature&volum
e=171&pages=737-738&publication_year=1953&author=Watson%2CJD)

  3. 3

International Human Genome Sequencing Consortium Initial sequencing and
analysis of the human genome. _Nature_ 2001; **409**: 860‚Äì921.

  4. 4

Venter JC, Adams MD, Myers EW, Li PW, Mural RJ, Sutton GG, et al. The sequence
of the human genome. _Science_ 2001; **291**: 1304‚Äì1351.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXhtlSgsbo%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1126%2Fscience.1058040)¬† [ Google Scholar](http:/
/scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20sequence%20of%20the%20human%20
genome&journal=Science&volume=291&pages=1304-1351&publication_year=2001&author
=Venter%2CJC&author=Adams%2CMD&author=Myers%2CEW&author=Li%2CPW&author=Mural%2
CRJ&author=Sutton%2CGG)

  5. 5

Collins F . Shattuck lecture: medical and societal consequences of the Human
Genome Project. _N Engl J Med_ 2000; **341**: 28‚Äì37.

[Article](https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJM199907013410106)¬† [ Google Scholar](ht
tp://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Shattuck%20lecture%3A%20medical%
20and%20societal%20consequences%20of%20the%20Human%20Genome%20Project&journal=
N%20Engl%20J%20Med&volume=341&pages=28-37&publication_year=2000&author=Collins
%2CF)

  6. 6

Tu Y . How robust is the Internet?. _Nature_ 2000; **406**: 353‚Äì354.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlslKjtbs%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35019222)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=How%20robust%20is%20the%20Internet%3F&journ
al=Nature&volume=406&pages=353-354&publication_year=2000&author=Tu%2CY)

  7. 7

Albert R, Jeong H, Barabasi AL . Error and attack tolerance of complex
networks. _Nature_ 2000; **406**: 378‚Äì382.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlslKgtLk%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35019019)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Error%20and%20attack%20tolerance%20of%20com
plex%20networks&journal=Nature&volume=406&pages=378-382&publication_year=2000&
author=Albert%2CR&author=Jeong%2CH&author=Barabasi%2CAL)

  8. 8

Eisenberg D, Marcotte EM, Xenarios I, Yeates TO . Protein function in the
post-genomic era. _Nature_ 2000; **405**: 823‚Äì826.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXksVyksLw%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35015694)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Protein%20function%20in%20the%20post-genomi
c%20era&journal=Nature&volume=405&pages=823-826&publication_year=2000&author=E
isenberg%2CD&author=Marcotte%2CEM&author=Xenarios%2CI&author=Yeates%2CTO)

  9. 9

Dipple KM, Phelan JK, McCabe ERB . Consequences of complexity within
biological networks: robustness and health, or vulnerability and disease. _Mol
Genet Metab_ 2001; **74**: 45‚Äì50.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXntlOkt78%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1006%2Fmgme.2001.3227)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://
scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Consequences%20of%20complexity%20with
in%20biological%20networks%3A%20robustness%20and%20health%2C%20or%20vulnerabil
ity%20and%20disease&journal=Mol%20Genet%20Metab&volume=74&pages=45-50&publicat
ion_year=2001&author=Dipple%2CKM&author=Phelan%2CJK&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  10. 10

Hartwell L, Hopfield JJ, Leibler S, Murray AW . From molecular to modular cell
biology. _Nature_ 1999; **402**: C47‚ÄìC52.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK1MXnslKms70%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35011540)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=From%20molecular%20to%20modular%20cell%20bi
ology&journal=Nature&volume=402&pages=C47-C52&publication_year=1999&author=Har
twell%2CL&author=Hopfield%2CJJ&author=Leibler%2CS&author=Murray%2CAW)

  11. 11

Elowitz MB, Leibler S . A synthetic oscillatory network of transcriptional
regulators. _Nature_ 2000; **403**: 335‚Äì338.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADC%252BD3c7itlamsA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35002125)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=A%20synthetic%20oscillatory%20network%20of%
20transcriptional%20regulators&journal=Nature&volume=403&pages=335-338&publica
tion_year=2000&author=Elowitz%2CMB&author=Leibler%2CS)

  12. 12

Judd EM, Laub MT, McAdams HH . Toggles and oscillators: new genetic circuit
designs. _Bioessays_ 2000; **22**: 507‚Äì509.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXmslSiur8%253D)¬† [Artic
le](https://doi.org/10.1002%2F%28SICI%291521-1878%28200006%2922%3A6%3C507%3A
%3AAID-BIES3%3E3.0.CO%3B2-0)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scho
lar_lookup?&title=Toggles%20and%20oscillators%3A%20new%20genetic%20circuit%20d
esigns&journal=Bioessays&volume=22&pages=507-509&publication_year=2000&author=
Judd%2CEM&author=Laub%2CMT&author=McAdams%2CHH)

  13. 13

Edwards JS, Palsson BO . Robustness analysis of the _Escherichia coli_
metabolic network. _Biotechnol Prog_ 2000; **16**: 927‚Äì939.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlsVShu70%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1021%2Fbp0000712)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schol
ar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Robustness%20analysis%20of%20the%20Escheri
chia%20coli%20metabolic%20network&journal=Biotechnol%20Prog&volume=16&pages=92
7-939&publication_year=2000&author=Edwards%2CJS&author=Palsson%2CBO)

  14. 14

Jeong H, Tombor B, Albert R, Oltval ZN, Barabasi AL . The large-scale
organization of metabolic networks. _Nature_ 2000; **407**: 651‚Äì654.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXnsVOrsLs%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35036627)¬† [ Google
Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20large-scale%20o
rganization%20of%20metabolic%20networks&journal=Nature&volume=407&pages=651-65
4&publication_year=2000&author=Jeong%2CH&author=Tombor%2CB&author=Albert%2CR&a
uthor=Oltval%2CZN&author=Barabasi%2CAL)

  15. 15

McCabe ERB . Adrenal hypoplasia and aplasia. In: Scriver CR, Beaudet AL, Sly
WS, Valle D, Childs B, Vogelstein B, editors. _The metabolic and molecular
basis of inherited diseases_, 8th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001: 4263‚Äì4274.

[ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20metabo
lic%20and%20molecular%20basis%20of%20inherited%20diseases&pages=4263-4274&publ
ication_year=2001&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  16. 16

Clipsham R, Zhang Y-H, Huang B-L, McCabe ERB . Genetic network identification
by high density, multiplexed reversed transcriptional (HD-MRT) analysis in
steroidogenic axis model cell lines. _Mol Genet Metab_ 2002; **77**: 159‚Äì178.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD38XntlSisLw%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS1096-7192%2802%2900119-1)¬† [ Google Schol
ar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Genetic%20network%20identi
fication%20by%20high%20density%2C%20multiplexed%20reversed%20transcriptional%2
0%28HD-MRT%29%20analysis%20in%20steroidogenic%20axis%20model%20cell%20lines&jo
urnal=Mol%20Genet%20Metab&volume=77&pages=159-178&publication_year=2002&author
=Clipsham%2CR&author=Zhang%2CY-H&author=Huang%2CB-L&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  17. 17

Dipple KM, McCabe ERB . Phenotypes of patients with ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian
disorders are complex traits: thresholds, modifiers and systems dynamics. _Am
J Hum Genet_ 2000; **66**: 1729‚Äì1735.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXntV2jtLc%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1086%2F302938)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://scholar.
google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Phenotypes%20of%20patients%20with%20%E2%80%9C
simple%E2%80%9D%20Mendelian%20disorders%20are%20complex%20traits%3A%20threshol
ds%2C%20modifiers%20and%20systems%20dynamics&journal=Am%20J%20Hum%20Genet&volu
me=66&pages=1729-1735&publication_year=2000&author=Dipple%2CKM&author=McCabe%2
CERB)

  18. 18

Dipple KM, McCabe ERB . Modifier genes convert ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian disorders to
complex traits. _Mol Genet Metab_ 2000; **71**: 43‚Äì50.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXms1yjtb4%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1006%2Fmgme.2000.3052)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://
scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Modifier%20genes%20convert%20%E2%80%9
Csimple%E2%80%9D%20Mendelian%20disorders%20to%20complex%20traits&journal=Mol%2
0Genet%20Metab&volume=71&pages=43-50&publication_year=2000&author=Dipple%2CKM&
author=McCabe%2CERB)

  19. 19

Beaudet A, Scriver C, Sly W, Valle D . Genetics, biochemistry and molecular
bases of variant human phenotypes. _In: Scriver CR, Beaudet AL, Sly WS, Valle
D, Childs B, Vogelstein B, editors_. _The metabolic and molecular basis of
inherited diseases_, 8th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001: 3‚Äì125.

[ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=In%3A%20Scri
ver%20CR%2C%20Beaudet%20AL%2C%20Sly%20WS%2C%20Valle%20D%2C%20Childs%20B%2C%20V
ogelstein%20B%2C%20editors&pages=3-125&publication_year=2001&author=Beaudet%2C
A&author=Scriver%2CC&author=Sly%2CW&author=Valle%2CD)

  20. 20

Scriver CR, Waters PJ . Monogenic traits are not simple: lessons from
phenylketonuria. _Trends Genet_ 1999; **15**: 267‚Äì272.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK1MXksVyms7c%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0168-9525%2899%2901761-8)¬† [ Google Schol
ar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Monogenic%20traits%20are%2
0not%20simple%3A%20lessons%20from%20phenylketonuria&journal=Trends%20Genet&vol
ume=15&pages=267-272&publication_year=1999&author=Scriver%2CCR&author=Waters%2
CPJ)

  21. 21

Gaston MH, Verter JI, Woods G, Pegelow C, Kelleher J, Presbury G, Zarkowsky H,
Vichinsky E, Iyer R, Lobel JS, Diamond S, Holbrook CT, Gill FM, Ritchey K,
Fallette JM . Prophylaxis with oral penicillin in children with sickle cell
anemia: a randomized trial. _N Engl J Med_ 1986; **314**: 1593‚Äì1599.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADyaL283jtVOhsA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJM198606193142501)¬† [ Google Scholar](ht
tp://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Prophylaxis%20with%20oral%20peni
cillin%20in%20children%20with%20sickle%20cell%20anemia%3A%20a%20randomized%20t
rial&journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&volume=314&pages=1593-1599&publication_year=19
86&author=Gaston%2CMH&author=Verter%2CJI&author=Woods%2CG&author=Pegelow%2CC&a
uthor=Kelleher%2CJ&author=Presbury%2CG&author=Zarkowsky%2CH&author=Vichinsky%2
CE&author=Iyer%2CR&author=Lobel%2CJS&author=Diamond%2CS&author=Holbrook%2CCT&a
uthor=Gill%2CFM&author=Ritchey%2CK&author=Fallette%2CJM)

  22. 22

Wethers D . NIH Consensus Development Conference Statement on newborn
screening for sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies. 1987; 6.

[Download references](/articles/gim200275-references.ris)

## Author information

### Affiliations

  1. President, American College of Medical Genetics; Physician-in-Chief, Mattel Children's Hospital at UCLA; Professor and Executive Chair, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA; and Director, UCLA Center for Society, the Individual and Genetics

Edward R B Mccabe

  2. Physician-in-Chief, Mattel Children's Hospital at UCLA

Edward R B Mccabe

Authors

  1. Edward R B Mccabe

[View author publications](/search?author="Edward R B+Mccabe")

You can also search for this author in
[PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=search&term=Edward
R B+Mccabe)¬†[Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?as_q=&num=10&
btnG=Search+Scholar&as_epq=&as_oq=&as_eq=&as_occt=any&as_sauthors=%22Edward R
B+Mccabe%22&as_publication=&as_ylo=&as_yhi=&as_allsubj=all&hl=en)

### Corresponding author

Correspondence to Edward R B Mccabe.

## Additional information

The ACMG presidential address was presented March 14, 2002.

## Rights and permissions

[Reprints and Permissions](https://s100.copyright.com/AppDispatchServlet?title
=Translational%20genomics%20in%20medical%20genetics&author=Edward%20R%20B%20Mc
cabe&contentID=10.1097%2F00125817-200211000-00012&publication=1098-3600&public
ationDate=2002-11&publisherName=SpringerNature&orderBeanReset=true)

## About this article

### Cite this article

Mccabe, E. Translational genomics in medical genetics. _Genet Med_ **4,
**468‚Äì471 (2002). https://doi.org/10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012

[Download citation](/articles/gim200275.ris)

  * Issue Date: November 2002

  * DOI: <https://doi.org/10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012>

## Further reading

  * ###  [ Personalized medicine for individuals with Down syndrome ](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.07.008)

    * Linda L. McCabe
    *  & Edward R.B. McCabe

_Molecular Genetics and Metabolism_ (2011)

  * ###  [ Nanopediatrics: Enabling Personalized Medicine for Children ](https://doi.org/10.1203/PDR.0b013e3181d61ed2)

    * Edward R B McCabe

_Pediatric Research_ (2010)

  * ###  [ Genome-wide Testing: Genomic Medicine: Commentary on the article by Bar-Shira et al. on page 353 ](https://doi.org/10.1203/01.pdr.0000233116.85413.cd)

    * Sean A McGhee
    *  & Edward R B McCabe

_Pediatric Research_ (2006)

  * ###  [ GENETIC SCREENING: Carriers and Affected Individuals ](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.genom.5.061903.175941)

    * Linda L. McCabe
    *  & Edward R.B. McCabe

_Annual Review of Genomics and Human Genetics_ (2004)

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

[ ![Advertisement](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad/ad?iu=/285/geneticsinmedi
cine.nature.com/article&sz=300x250&c=472901925&t=pos%3Dright%26type%3Darticle%
26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedic
ine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/g
ampad/jump?iu=/285/geneticsinmedicine.nature.com/article&sz=300x250&c=47290192
5&t=pos%3Dright%26type%3Darticle%26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-
200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory
Medicine)

## Explore our content

  * [ Current Issue ](/gim/current-issue)
  * [ Browse Issues ](/gim/browse-issues)
  * [ Browse Articles ](/gim/articles)
  * [ Browse Collections ](/gim/collections)
  * [Sign up for alerts ](https://www.nature.com/my-account/alerts/subscribe-journal?list-id=303)

## Journal information

  * [ About the Journal ](/gim/about)
  * [ About the Editors ](/gim/editors)
  * [ For Authors & Referees ](/gim/authors-and-referees)
  * [ Contact ](/gim/contact)
  * [ Podcasts ](/gim/podcast)
  * [ Press Releases ](/gim/press-releases)
  * [ About the Partner ](/gim/partner)
  * [ Subscribe ](/gim/subscribe)
  * [Submit manuscript ](https://www.editorialmanager.com/gim/default.aspx)

## Search

Article Search

Search

[ Advanced search ](/search/advanced)

### Quick links

  * [Explore articles by subject](/subjects)
  * [Find a job](/naturecareers)
  * [Guide to authors](/authors/index.html)
  * [Editorial policies](/authors/editorial_policies/)

Genetics in Medicine  ISSN 1530-0366 (online)

## nature.com sitemap

![Nature Research](/static/images/logos/nature research-
white-150.f4acf77e0c.svg)

  * [About us](https://www.nature.com/npg_/company_info/index.html)
  * [Press releases](https://www.nature.com/npg_/press_room/press_releases.html)
  * [Press office](https://press.nature.com/)
  * [Contact us](https://support.nature.com/support/home)
  * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/nature/)
  * [ ](https://twitter.com/nresearchnews?lang=en)
  * [ ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvCLdSgYdSTpWcOgEJgi-ng)

### Discover content

  * [Journals A-Z](https://www.nature.com/siteindex)
  * [Articles by subject](https://www.nature.com/subjects/)
  * [Nano](https://nano.nature.com/)
  * [Protocol Exchange](https://www.nature.com/protocolexchange/)
  * [Nature Index](https://www.natureindex.com/)

### Publish with us

  * [Guide to Authors](https://www.nature.com/authors/author_resources/index.html)
  * [Guide to Referees](https://www.nature.com/authors/peer_review/)
  * [Editorial policies](https://www.nature.com/authors/editorial_policies/)
  * [Open access](http://www.nature.com/openresearch/publishing-with-npg/)
  * [Reprints & permissions](https://www.nature.com/reprints/)

### Researcher services

  * [Research data](https://www.springernature.com/gp/authors/research-data)
  * [Language editing](https://authorservices.springernature.com/go/nr)
  * [Scientific editing](https://authorservices.springernature.com/scientific-editing/)
  * [Nature Masterclasses](https://masterclasses.nature.com/)
  * [Nature Research Academies](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/researcher-training/)

### Libraries & institutions

  * [Librarian service & tools](https://www.springernature.com/gp/librarians/tools-services)
  * [Librarian portal](https://www.springernature.com/gp/librarians/manage-your-account/librarianportal)
  * [Open research](http://www.nature.com/openresearch/about-open-access/information-for-institutions/)

### Advertising & partnerships

  * [Advertising](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/digital-advertising/)
  * [Partnerships & Services](https://partnerships.nature.com/)
  * [Media kits](https://partnerships.nature.com/media-kits/)
  * [Branded content](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/branded-content-native-advertising/)

### Career development

  * [Nature Careers](https://www.nature.com/naturecareers)
  * [Nature Conferences](https://www.nature.com/natureconferences/)
  * [Nature events](https://www.nature.com/natureevents/)

### Regional websites

  * [Nature China](http://www.naturechina.com)
  * [Nature India](https://www.nature.com/nindia)
  * [Nature Japan](https://www.natureasia.com/ja-jp/)
  * [Nature Korea](https://www.natureasia.com/ko-kr/)
  * [Nature Middle East](https://www.nature.com/nmiddleeast/)

### Legal & Privacy

  * [Privacy Policy](https://www.nature.com/info/privacy.html)
  * [Use of cookies](https://www.nature.com/info/cookies.html)
  * [Manage cookies/Do not sell my data](javascript:;)
  * [Legal notice](https://www.nature.com/info/legal_notice.html)
  * [Accessibility statement](https://www.nature.com/info/accessibility_statement.html)
  * [Terms & Conditions](https://www.nature.com/info/tandc.html)
  * [California Privacy Statement](https://www.springernature.com/ccpa)

![Springer Nature](/static/images/logos/sn-logo-white.ea63208b81.svg)

(C) 2020 Springer Nature Limited

![](https://verify.nature.com/verify/nature.png)
![](/platform/track/article/gim200275)

  *[DOI]: Digital Object Identifier
  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

Skip to main content

  * [AACR Publications](http://aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Blood Cancer Discovery](https://bloodcancerdiscov.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention](http://cebp.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Immunology Research](http://cancerimmunolres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Prevention Research](http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Research](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Clinical Cancer Research](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Research](http://mcr.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Therapeutics](http://mct.aacrjournals.org/)

![AACR logo](/sites/default/files/additional_assets/AACR_logo_130x45_gray.png)

  * [Register](/user/register)
  * [Log in](/user/login?destination=/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Log out](/user/logout?current=node/153269)
  * __[ My Cart](/cart)

Advertisement

## __Main menu

  * [Home](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
  * [About](/content/about-us)
    * [The Journal](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/about.xhtml)
    * [AACR Journals](http://www.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Subscriptions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
    * [Permissions and Reprints](http://aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
    * [Reviewing](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)
    * [CME](https://cme.aacrjournals.org/events/highwire/aacr/content/help.jsp?page=about)
  * [Articles](/content/by/year)
    * [OnlineFirst](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/recent)
    * [Current Issue](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/current)
    * [Past Issues](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/by/year)
    * [CCR Focus Archive](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
    * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)
    * [Collections](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/esmo-collections)
      * [Clinical Trials](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/clinical)
      * [Immunotherapy: Facts and Hopes](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/factshopes18)
      * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/editors-picks)
      * "[Best of" Collection](http://digitaleditions.sheridan.com/publication/frame.php?i=663585&p=&pn=&ver=html5)
  * [For Authors](/content/authors)
    * [Information for Authors](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/ifora)
    * [Author Services](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/author-services-center)
    * [Best of: Author Profiles](http://aacrjournals.org/best)
    * [Submit](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)
  * [Alerts](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
    * [Table of Contents](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup)
    * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup#edpicks)
    * [OnlineFirst](/alerts/toc/edit)
    * [Citation](/alerts/article/criteria?destination=alerts)
    * [Author/Keyword](/alerts/search/add?destination=alerts)
    * [My Alert Summary & Preferences](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
  * [News](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery News](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/sites/default/files/cd_news/CDNews.html?utm_source=CCRwebpage&utm_medium=dropdown1&utm_campaign=cdnews)
  * [Search](/search) More

Search for this keyword

__

[Advanced Search](/search)

  * [AACR Publications](http://aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Blood Cancer Discovery](https://bloodcancerdiscov.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention](http://cebp.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Immunology Research](http://cancerimmunolres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Prevention Research](http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Research](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Clinical Cancer Research](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Research](http://mcr.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Therapeutics](http://mct.aacrjournals.org/)

## __User menu

  * [Register](/user/register)
  * [Log in](/user/login?destination=/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Log out](/user/logout?current=node/153269)
  * __[ My Cart](/cart)

## __Search

Search for this keyword

__

  * [Advanced search](/search)

![Clinical Cancer Research](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/defau
lt/files/ccr_title_88.jpg)

![Clinical Cancer Research](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/defau
lt/files/ccr_title_88.jpg)

  * [Home](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
  * [About](/content/about-us)
    * [The Journal](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/about.xhtml)
    * [AACR Journals](http://www.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Subscriptions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
    * [Permissions and Reprints](http://aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
    * [Reviewing](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)
    * [CME](https://cme.aacrjournals.org/events/highwire/aacr/content/help.jsp?page=about)
  * [Articles](/content/by/year)
    * [OnlineFirst](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/recent)
    * [Current Issue](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/current)
    * [Past Issues](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/by/year)
    * [CCR Focus Archive](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
    * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)
    * [Collections](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/esmo-collections)
      * [Clinical Trials](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/clinical)
      * [Immunotherapy: Facts and Hopes](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/factshopes18)
      * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/editors-picks)
      * "[Best of" Collection](http://digitaleditions.sheridan.com/publication/frame.php?i=663585&p=&pn=&ver=html5)
  * [For Authors](/content/authors)
    * [Information for Authors](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/ifora)
    * [Author Services](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/author-services-center)
    * [Best of: Author Profiles](http://aacrjournals.org/best)
    * [Submit](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)
  * [Alerts](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
    * [Table of Contents](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup)
    * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup#edpicks)
    * [OnlineFirst](/alerts/toc/edit)
    * [Citation](/alerts/article/criteria?destination=alerts)
    * [Author/Keyword](/alerts/search/add?destination=alerts)
    * [My Alert Summary & Preferences](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
  * [News](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery News](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/sites/default/files/cd_news/CDNews.html?utm_source=CCRwebpage&utm_medium=dropdown1&utm_campaign=cdnews)
  * [Search](/search) More

Search for this keyword

__

[Advanced Search](/search)

CCR Focus

# Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Lucy R. Yates

1Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, United
Kingdom.

2Department of Clinical Oncology, Guys and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London,
United Kingdom.

  * [Find this author on Google Scholar](/lookup/google-scholar?link_type=googlescholar&gs_type=author&author%5B0%5D=Lucy%2BR.%2BYates%2B)
  * [Find this author on PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?access_num=Yates%20LR&link_type=AUTHORSEARCH)
  * [Search for this author on this site](/search/author1%3ALucy%2BR.%2BYates%2B)

Christine Desmedt

3Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Institut Jules Bordet,
Universit√© Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

  * [Find this author on Google Scholar](/lookup/google-scholar?link_type=googlescholar&gs_type=author&author%5B0%5D=Christine%2BDesmedt%2B)
  * [Find this author on PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?access_num=Desmedt%20C&link_type=AUTHORSEARCH)
  * [Search for this author on this site](/search/author1%3AChristine%2BDesmedt%2B)
  * For correspondence: [christine.desmedt@bordet.be](mailto:christine.desmedt@bordet.be)

**DOI:** 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548 Published June 2017

![](https://crossmark-
cdn.crossref.org/widget/v2.0/logos/CROSSMARK_Color_horizontal.svg)

  * [Article](/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Figures & Data](/content/23/11/2630.figures-only)
  * [Info & Metrics](/content/23/11/2630.article-info)
  * __[ PDF](/content/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

![Loading](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/contrib/pa
nels_ajax_tab/images/loading.gif)

## Abstract

The genomic revolution has fundamentally changed our perception of breast
cancer. It is now apparent from DNA-based massively parallel sequencing data
that at the genomic level, every breast cancer is unique and shaped by the
mutational processes to which it was exposed during its lifetime. More than 90
breast cancer driver genes have been identified as recurrently mutated, and
many occur at low frequency across the breast cancer population. Certain
cancer genes are associated with traditionally defined histologic subtypes,
but genomic intertumoral heterogeneity exists even between cancers that appear
the same under the microscope. Most breast cancers contain subclonal
populations, many of which harbor driver alterations, and subclonal structure
is typically remodeled over time, across metastasis and as a consequence of
treatment interventions. Genomics is deepening our understanding of breast
cancer biology, contributing to an accelerated phase of targeted drug
development and providing insights into resistance mechanisms. Genomics is
also providing tools necessary to deliver personalized cancer medicine, but a
number of challenges must still be addressed. _Clin Cancer Res; 23(11);
2630‚Äì9. ¬©2017 AACR_.

**See all articles in this _[CCR Focus](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11#CCRFocus)_ section, ‚ÄúBreast Cancer Research: From Base Pairs to Populations.‚Äù**

## Introduction

Technical and analytic developments underpin major advances in our
understanding of breast cancer biology over the last two decades. The
application of gene expression arrays in the early 2000s led to a refined
molecular classification, the development of prognostic assays, and a better
characterization of the contribution of the tumor microenvironment (1, 2).
First steps toward translating molecularly defined breast cancer subsets came
from efforts using gene expression‚Äìbased signatures, which have led to
multiple commercially available and clinically useful assays in hormone
receptor‚Äìpositive breast cancer, and are continuing to be developed for
multiple clinical/translational applications today. Discussing RNA-based
assays is beyond the scope of the current review but was the topic of a recent
_CCR 20th Anniversary Commentary_ (2). The genomic revolution later saw the
emergence of commercially available massively parallel sequencing approaches
that permit the comprehensive profiling of an entire cancer's genome, all
coding genes (exome), or a selection of genes (targeted sequencing). DNA
sequencing technologies offer the potential to deliver personalized medicine
by matching appropriate targeted therapeutics with unique molecular
aberrations within an individual's cancer. Furthermore, massively parallel
sequencing can be used to identify biomarkers associated with response to
experimental targeted therapies, both in clinical trials and _in vitro_.

Here we consider five practical applications of the genomic revolution,
summarizing in each case what we have learned thus far and considering the
challenges that remain for future endeavors (Fig. 1). Key messages include the
following: (i) the driver landscape of breast cancer includes many rare cancer
genes and an unexpected level of inter- and intratumoral driver mutation
heterogeneity; (ii) understanding the mutational processes operating
throughout a cancer's lifetime may identify therapeutic vulnerabilities; (iii)
many genomic features align with traditional molecular and histologic subtypes
that can aid classification; (iv) cancers demonstrate subclonal
diversification that may underlie primary and acquired treatment resistance;
and (v) a range of patterns of metastatic dissemination are observed
reflecting clonal evolution.

![Figure 1.](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAA
BAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Figure 1.](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clin
canres/23/11/2630/F1.medium.gif)

  * [Download figure](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F1.large.jpg?download=true)
  * [Open in new tab](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F1.large.jpg)
  * [Download powerpoint](/highwire/powerpoint/153358)

Figure 1.

Applications of the genomic revolution in breast cancer. Each of the five
segments represents an application of the genomic revolution, main findings
are pictured within the inner, white panel, and outstanding challenges are
summarized in the outer, blue panel. Histologic subtypes: invasive ductal
cancer (IDC) and invasive lobular cancer (ILC).

## Application 1: Characterizing the Driver Landscape of Breast Cancer

To date, almost 100 high-probability breast cancer driver genes have been
identified through the application of computational approaches to massively
parallel sequence data generated from more than 4,000 primary breast cancer
samples (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 3‚Äì18). Cancer genes have been
identified based upon somatic mutation recurrence rates that exceed
expectation after taking into account features such as background mutation
rate and spectrum, nucleotide context, enrichment in phosphorylation-specific
regions or tertiary protein structures, and the ratio of nonsynonymous to
synonymous mutations (19‚Äì24). Various alternative methodologies exist such as
those that adopt subnetwork analyses to identify groups of potential cancer
genes by incorporating pathway or gene interaction information, and these may
be particularly useful for identifying very rare driver genes (25‚Äì28).

Saturation analyses predict that based on the number of samples now sequenced,
most cancer genes implicated in 2% or more breast cancers will have been
identified (29). However, we expect that many more low-frequency cancer genes
remain to be discovered, because there is emerging evidence, as discussed
below, that metastatic, pretreated, male, and special histopathologic subtypes
of cancers are genomically distinct from the ‚Äúgeneral‚Äù breast cancer
population (Tables 1 and 2; Supplementary Table S1; refs. 6, 10‚Äì18, 30‚Äì37).
Rare ‚Äúpopulations‚Äù are often the most clinically challenging to treat, and
further focused driver discovery exercises in these groups are warranted.

View this table:

  * View inline
  * [View popup](/highwire/markup/153316/expansion?width=1000&height=500&iframe=true&postprocessors=highwire_tables%2Chighwire_reclass%2Chighwire_figures%2Chighwire_math%2Chighwire_inline_linked_media%2Chighwire_embed)

Table 1.

Overview of the genomic findings and distribution of the PAM50 intrinsic
molecular subtypes in the general breast cancer population, according to the
estrogen receptor (ER) status

View this table:

  * View inline
  * [View popup](/highwire/markup/153413/expansion?width=1000&height=500&iframe=true&postprocessors=highwire_tables%2Chighwire_reclass%2Chighwire_figures%2Chighwire_math%2Chighwire_inline_linked_media%2Chighwire_embed)

Table 2.

Key genomic findings in rare histologic subtypes (massively parallel
sequencing)

Driver alterations refer to events that are predicted to inactivate tumor
suppressor genes or activate oncogenes‚Äîcommon mechanisms in the former include
homozygous deletions, truncating point mutations, or disrupting rearrangements
and in the latter, focal amplifications and activating missense mutations,
typically within mutational hotspots. A recent genome-wide analysis of 560
breast cancers (9) reported that the average cancer contains three such driver
alterations (range = 0‚Äì14) and, consistent with other series, confirmed that
only a handful of cancer genes are mutated in more than 10% of breast cancers
(3‚Äì10). The most frequently implicated cancer genes (and their frequencies)
across the 560 breast cancers are _TP53_ (41%), _PIK3CA_ (30%), _MYC_ (20%),
_PTEN_ (16%), _CCND1_ (16%), _ERBB2_ (13%), _FGFR1_ (11%), and _GATA3_ (10%;
ref. 9). Because most cancer genes are mutated in less than 5% of cancers,
considerable interpatient heterogeneity exists (4, 7). By example, whole-exome
sequencing of 100 breast cancers identified driver point mutations and copy
number changes in 40 genes in 73 combinations, indicating that at the driver
gene level, most primary breast cancers are distinct (4). The wide range of
possible driver combinations within an individual cancer will demand
systematic approaches to facilitate target prioritization and guide
combination therapy approaches if we reach a position where a large number of
effective therapeutic targets are available.

The majority of driver events detected in a primary tumor are clonal, being
present in all tumor cells. However, subclones are common, and these can
harbor driver events that alter some of the most common and most frequently
clonal breast cancer genes including _TP53, MYC, PIK3CA_, and _HER2_, in
addition to rarer cancer genes such as _FGFR2_ and _RUNX1_ (3, 35, 36, 38,
39). In a multiregion sampling study, we identified subclonal, potentially
targetable alterations in 13 of 50 primary breast cancers and demonstrated
that subclones can be spatially separated, posing a challenge to
representative sampling (36). In a quarter of these cases, we identified
parallel evolution, with the same cancer gene mutated multiple times in
different subclones in the same tumor, indicating that particular subclonal
aberrations within an individual cancer may be under strong selection (36).
Highlighting the clinical relevance of such a finding, in one case of
metastatic breast cancer, parallel genetic loss of _PTEN_ in multiple
metastatic sites was documented after treatment with the PI(3)KŒ± inhibitor
BYL719 (40). In this case, the emergence of a convergent PTEN-null
treatment‚Äìresistant phenotype provided strong rationale for targeting the
subclonal alterations; however, in general, it is not yet clear when and if we
should target subclonal alterations or if a greater benefit will be derived
from targeting clonal alterations that are present in every cancer cell.

## Challenges

Determining the range of driver events operating within an individual breast
cancer depends, to some extent, on the sequencing technology employed (Fig.
2). Targeted approaches can provide (at lower cost than whole-genome
sequencing) high-depth sequence coverage, high sensitivity, and accurate
quantification of point mutations, overcoming, to some extent, technical
challenges such as low tumor cellularity and driver mutation subclonality
(ref. 41; Fig. 2). However, targeted approaches make prior assumptions about
the range of relevant cancer genes. Furthermore, breast cancers are
characterized by frequent and often complex structural variation, and the
precise nature of structural variation can only be captured using genome-wide
sequencing (Fig. 2; ref. 42). For example, a recent study revealed that
rearrangement breakpoints disrupt tumor suppressor gene footprints more
frequently than expected, contributing to the recessive cancer gene landscape,
with the most frequently affected genes being _PTEN, RB1_, and _ARID1B_ in 7%,
5%, and 4% of the cases, respectively (9). The same study revealed that
recurrent fusion genes and noncoding driver mutations are uncommon in primary
breast cancers (9). The full contribution of structural variation to the
driver landscape of breast cancers remains to be determined. Selecting the
most appropriate technology for incorporation in clinico-genomic trials is of
paramount importance.

![Figure 2.](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAA
BAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Figure 2.](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clin
canres/23/11/2630/F2.medium.gif)

  * [Download figure](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F2.large.jpg?download=true)
  * [Open in new tab](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F2.large.jpg)
  * [Download powerpoint](/highwire/powerpoint/153430)

Figure 2.

Insights into breast cancer genomes by applying different massively parallel
sequencing (MPS) approaches. Comparison of whole-genome sequencing (WGS),
whole-exome sequencing (WES), and targeted sequencing (TS) as approaches for
exploring the breast cancer genome. Two typical but contrasting examples of
breast cancer genomes are presented. WGS reveals all genomic mutations types
as presented within the two Circos plots. Colored dots in the outer ring
represent base substitutions (Subs), copy number changes are reported in the
second ring, whereas the colored lines in the center represent structural
variant (SV), otherwise known as rearrangements. WES and TS identify only a
fraction of mutations and do not necessarily reflect the stark differences
between the two genomic landscapes pictured. The large numbers of mutations
identified by WGS permit mutation signature detection. WES identifies
typically 10 to 300 mutations, and signature analysis is unreliable at the
lower end of this range. Notably, the homologous recombination deficiency
(HRD) substitution signature is relatively subtle, and confident detection
usually demands several hundred mutations. Although not represented in this
figure, the high depth afforded by TS offers the additional advantage of
exploring subclonality by comparing different mutations' variant allele
fractions within a tumor, providing accurate copy number can be determined.
Note the reported numbers are estimates only for illustration purposes. NA,
not available.

Defining the targetable landscape of breast cancer remains in its infancy.
High-throughput functional validation approaches are indicated to determine
the significance of potential cancer genes and driver mutations (43, 44).
Importantly, the clinical viability of even some of the most common cancer
genes (present in more than 10% of cancers) as therapeutic targets remains as
yet unproven, with only _ERBB2_ and _PIK3CA_ (45) associated with objective
responses to targeted therapies and only the former demonstrating validated
and independent prognostic and predictive value (46). _TP53, GATA3_, and _MYC_
have diverse transcriptional activities, and attempts to target them both
directly and indirectly have proved difficult for various reasons, including
lack of specificity and efficiency (47‚Äì51). These targets remain an intense
area of research. For example, clinical trials assessing the activity of PIM
kinase inhibitors in _MYC_-amplified triple-negative breast cancers are now
keenly awaited following promising preclinical work that identified a
targetable synthetic lethal interaction between _PIM1_ and _MYC_ (52).

It is important to consider that the presence of an apparent target does not
necessarily predict for response. Recent phase III studies confirmed a
survival advantage associated with the use of mTOR inhibitors (53) and CDK4/6
inhibitors (54) in advanced estrogen receptor (ER)‚Äìpositive breast cancers;
however, to date, biomarkers to predict response to these agents have not been
identified. In the PALOMA 1 trial, _CCND1_ amplifications or loss of p16
failed to predict for a response to the CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib (55). In
a retrospective analysis of the BOLERO-2 trial, progression-free survival
benefit was observed in association with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus
irrespective of the presence or absence of genomic alterations within _PIK3CA,
CCND1_, and _FGFR1_ (56). However, the extent of benefit from everolimus
varied according to the exon specific mutation (exon 20 versus exon 9),
indicating that the definition of a target may be more nuanced than initially
appreciated.

Overcoming the significant challenges of defining and ultimately targeting the
driver landscape of breast cancer will demand large-scale, international,
novel clinico-genomic screening and clinical trial strategies, as has been
discussed comprehensively elsewhere (57). It is also clear that, since many
driver alterations are ultarare in breast cancer, studies from single cases or
small case series will also be extremely valuable, particularly for exploring
extreme response or therapeutic resistance (58).

## Application 2: Dynamic Mutational Processes and Repair Deficiencies

Whole-genome sequencing identifies thousands of mutations within each cancer,
and although the majority of them are passenger events, the patterns that they
form, termed ‚Äúmutational signatures,‚Äù can reveal the mutational processes that
shaped that cancer's evolution (59). A recent analysis of 560 breast cancer
whole genomes identified 20 distinct mutational signatures (9). Typically,
multiple mutational processes are identified within each individual breast
cancer, and their relative contributions may vary over time (36, 60).

## Challenges

A comprehensive overview of mutational processes in breast cancer is presented
in another article in this _CCR Focus_ section (61). In the context of
‚Äúpractical applications,‚Äù the fundamental principle is that understanding the
processes that generate mutational diversity, the substrate of natural
selection, could ultimately result in strategies to oppose cancer development
and progression (62). However, for most mutational signatures, both etiology
and direct clinical utility are at this time unclear. At present, the mutation
signatures with the greatest potential clinical benefit are those that
identify deficiencies in the homologous recombination repair pathway and may
predict for sensitivity to platinum salt chemotherapies and PARP inhibitors
(63‚Äì68). Such signatures could extend the number of patients for whom such
agents may confer benefit, beyond those with germline or somatic mutations or
promoter methylation within _BRCA1/2_ and other _BRCA_-related genes (9, 69,
70), and has been used to confirm that an ER-positive tumor arising in a
_BRCA1_ carrier is related to the germline lesion rather than being a sporadic
cancer (71).

## Application 3: Supporting Molecular and Histologic Classification of Breast
Cancers

Despite considerable intertumoral heterogeneity, certain genomic patterns
align with the molecular and histologic subtypes. For example, luminal-like
/ER-positive breast cancers typically harbor mutations in _PIK3CA, GATA3_, or
_MAP3K1_ (6‚Äì8). The most commonly mutated cancer gene in basal-like/triple-
negative breast cancers is _TP53_, and this usually contains truncating
(frameshift or nonsense) mutations (72). In contrast, when _TP53_ mutations
occur in luminal-like cancers, they are usually missense mutations (8, 10,
73). Characteristic genomic changes also underlie histologic subtypes.
Recently, several consortia have genomically characterized more than 1,225
invasive lobular breast cancers (6, 10, 13, 17, 18). Lobular tumors typically
express ER and lack _HER2_ amplification, and represent the second most
frequent histologic subtype, accounting for up to 15% of all invasive breast
carcinomas (74). Lobular tumors display a distinct mutational pattern compared
with their ER-positive/HER2-negative ductal counterparts, including a higher
frequency of _CDH1_ and _PTEN_ loss and _AKT1, ERBB2, ERBB3_, and _TBX3_
mutations (6, 10, 13, 17). Furthermore, ER-positive tumors of lobular and
ductal type have a strong tendency toward _FOXA1_ or _GATA3_ mutations,
respectively, indicating that distinct genomic mechanisms of ER activation may
exist in these distinct pathologies (6, 17, 75). Distinct genomic patterns are
also characteristic of rare tumor types, including adenoid cystic, apocrine,
medullary, mucinous, metaplastic, micropapillary, and neuroendocrine tumors,
and are detailed in Table 1 and Supplementary Table S1 (10‚Äì12, 15, 16, 18, 32,
33, 76).

## Challenges

We continue to extrapolate from global breast cancer populations to make
clinical treatment decisions for special histologic subtypes. Now, there is
growing evidence of molecular differences between these subtypes. We should,
therefore, acknowledge both molecular and histologic subtypes as relevant
pathologic covariates in future clinical and translational research. In
addition, because certain potential therapeutic targets are enriched in some
subtypes, such as _ERBB2_ and _ERBB3_ mutations in lobular carcinomas, one
could imagine that conventional pathology could be used to enhance mutational
screening for clinical trial enrollment.

## Application 4: Defining the Genomic Basis of Metastasis

Clinically overt metastasis to distant organs is currently incurable. The most
informative sequencing approaches exploring this fatal transition compare
primary tumor and metastatic deposits from the same individual (Supplementary
Table S1). Studies focused on coding mutations reveal that most of the driver
events within the primary tumor are shared with associated metastatic deposits
(77‚Äì80). This indicates that the primary tumor may be a good surrogate for the
relapse-seeding clone, which is the target for adjuvant therapies that have
the potential to improve cancer cure rates (79, 80). For example, in a study
of single metastatic deposits from 33 individuals, 87% of driver mutations and
86% of copy number aberrations were also detected in the primary tumor (79). A
recent single-cell sequencing study of disseminated tumor cells supported this
linear model of late dissemination from the primary tumor (81). Metastatic
deposits generally harbor additional private mutations, often including known
driver mutations, reflecting ongoing subclonal diversification after
dissemination (36, 77‚Äì80, 82).

A handful of published studies have started to unravel the genomic basis of
breast cancer progression and define the temporal ordering of mutations
through the analysis of the primary tumor and multiple metastatic deposits
acquired during ‚Äúrapid‚Äù autopsy (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 40, 77‚Äì80,
82‚Äì84). In this context, a recent survey conducted in Australia to evaluate
patients' attitudes toward rapid autopsy and tissue donation revealed that 87%
were willing to donate tissue at death (85). So far, multiple tumor deposits
from a total of 17 breast cancer patients who underwent autopsy have been
investigated at the mutational and copy number level (40, 80, 83, 84).
Although each patient reported in these studies has her own history of
treatment and disease evolution, several messages emerge. First, given the
observed primary/metastasis and intermetastasis genomic heterogeneity, there
is no single tumor sample that recapitulates the complete disease, that is,
all the genomic alterations present in all samples from the patient (40, 80,
82‚Äì84). Second, both linear and parallel evolution from the primary tumor are
observed (Fig. 1; refs. 80, 83, 84). In some patients, there is only one
successful seeding event that gives rise to a so-called metastatic precursor
that then seeds the other metastases, possibly in a cascading manner (Fig. 1).
In other patients, multiple successful seeding events arise from the primary
tumor. Finally, evidence is accumulating that metastatic cross-seeding occurs
between established metastases (83, 84).

## Challenges

A potential limitation of the studies that investigate metastasis using a
targeted sequencing approach is that the cancer genes present in these panels
were derived almost exclusively from the study of treatment-na√Øve primary
tumors and, consequently, may fail to identify genes enriched or specific to
metastatic, relapsed, or pretreated cancers. Some preliminary evidence from
metastatic tumors suggests indeed that different drivers may be associated
with metastasis, and that these are drawn from an even wider range of cancer
genes than in primary tumors (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 30, 34, 79, 86).
It is conceivable that some genes only act as drivers in nuanced situations,
for example, in resisting a specific anticancer therapy, and in specific
cancer subtypes, so studies should be powered to identify rare resistance
mutations, a theme that will be explored in further detail later in this
review (34, 87‚Äì89).

Extensive work remains within this field to determine when and what driver
mutations are most relevant to the application of personalized medicine.
Exhaustive sampling of all metastatic deposits is not practical, so if
metastasis-specific mutations are clinically important, representative
sampling strategies need to be developed. Options include sampling areas of
progressive disease after treatment interventions, particularly when a mixed
response is seen, or alternatively, using ‚Äúliquid biopsies‚Äù (refs. 90‚Äì92;
Supplementary Table S1). In one study, sequencing of circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) successfully identified changes in the levels of subclonal mutations
as the relevant metastatic sites responded or progressed, providing proof of
principle for the role of a liquid biopsy to monitor treatment response (90).
Such an approach can also use ctDNA to predict minimal residual disease and
relapse, potentially extending the window of opportunity for applying adjuvant
therapies to further improve cancer cure rates (93).

## Application 5: Identifying Genomic Mechanisms of Resistance to Treatment

Changes in subclonal structure have been demonstrated across treatment
interventions using cytotoxic and endocrine therapy and targeted therapies
(35‚Äì37, 40, 94). Several genomic mechanisms of resistance to various therapies
have recently been uncovered, with mutations in _ESR1_, the gene encoding the
ER, being the most described and studied in the context of endocrine
resistance (34, 87, 95‚Äì98). Mutations cluster in the ligand-binding domain of
_ESR1_ and activate ER in the absence of the estrogen ligand. These mutations
have been detected almost exclusively in the context of prior endocrine
therapy, typically with aromatase inhibitors, and more frequently where
sensitivity to prior endocrine therapy was observed (98), suggesting that
these mutations are associated with acquired, but not primary, endocrine
resistance. A recent large-scale initiative, the Metastatic Breast Cancer
Project, characterized over 140 metastatic biopsies from endocrine
therapy‚Äìtreated patients and identified several acquired mutations, in
addition to _ESR1_, that may be involved in endocrine resistance, including
_AKT1, ERBB2, KRAS_, and _RB1_ alterations (99). There is also preliminary
evidence from cell-line and patient-derived xenograft models that
CDK4/6-inhibitor resistance may be mediated by loss of _RB1_ or amplification
of _CCNE1_ or _CDK6_ (100, 101).

Treatment resistance might be complicated by heterogeneity, for example,
multiple metastatic deposits from an individual may exhibit parallel evolution
of genomic resistance, whereas other metastases may not have any genomic mark
of resistance, potentially explaining the heterogeneous response to treatment
observed in the clinic (40, 83, 96‚Äì98, 102).

## Challenges

Interrogating ctDNA represents an attractive option for identifying multiple
mechanisms of resistance in different metastases. This is the strategy adopted
by the recent UK plasmaMATCH trial ([ISRCTN16945804](/external-
ref?link_type=ISRCTN&access_num=ISRCTN16945804)), a primary aim of which is to
determine whether plasma-derived ctDNA is an acceptable alternative to tumor
biopsies for mutation identification in metastatic breast cancer. A secondary
aim is to determine whether there is a clinical benefit from therapeutic
targeting of mutations identified in ctDNA. However, open questions remain
regarding the contribution of tumor deposits to ctDNA. This contribution could
be dependent on the metastatic organ, cancer proliferation rate, histology,
size of the metastasis, and response to therapy. For instance, it has been
demonstrated that brain metastases do not or poorly contribute to ctDNA in
plasma and that ctDNA from cerebrospinal fluid would offer a better
representation of the genomic alterations of brain metastases (103).

It is also important to perform comprehensive assessment of the various
pathways activated within an individual cancer rather than seeking a single
mutation in isolation (104). For example, only a fraction of patients
receiving selective PI3KŒ± inhibitors respond, and nonresponders tend to
demonstrate an increase in ER-dependent transcription that can be overcome in
some cases by combining the PI3KŒ± inhibitor with an anti-estrogen such as
tamoxifen or fulvestrant (105).

## Conclusions and Perspective

Although the genomic revolution has profoundly broadened our understanding of
the number and nature of somatic alterations within breast cancer genomes, the
clinical benefit of these discoveries remains modest. The feasibility of DNA
sequencing to direct the management of metastatic breast cancer through a
personalized cancer medicine approach has been examined in two prospective
molecular screening studies: SAFIR01/UNICANCER and MOSCATO, in the years 2011
to 2012 (106, 107). The two studies included 423 and 129 patients, and
identified potentially targetable alterations in 40% and 46% of patients with
the ability to personalize therapy in 13% and 23% of cases, respectively. Of
the patients who received targeted therapy, 9% and 20% had a partial response
and 21% and 56% had stable disease, respectively. Therefore, 3% and 15% of
patients originally screened in these two studies derived clinical benefit
from a targeted therapy, but in the absence of a control arm, we cannot infer
if the benefit exceeded that of standard of care. It is worth noting that the
SHIVA trial, which randomized 293 patients with potentially targetable
alterations to molecularly targeted versus standard therapy and found no
improvement in outcome but higher toxicity, involved last-generation targeted
agents (108). The effect of a personalized cancer medicine approach on
survival or, indeed, any other outcome remains to be determined within
randomized trials using validated biomarkers and modern targeted drugs.

Although this review has focused on genomic sequence data, it is clear that
tackling breast cancer, a complex set of diseases, will require integrated
assessment of a wide range of data types, including pathologic
characterization (such as histologic subtyping and assessment of the cellular
composition), transcriptomics, epigenetics, and proteomics, in addition to
genomics (6, 10, 109).

Most large driver discovery studies published to date include primary,
treatment-na√Øve cancers (Supplementary Table S1), and around 80% of these are
likely to have been cured using existing treatment strategies. Moving forward,
focus should be placed on understanding the mechanisms of both primary and
acquired treatment resistance and the genomics of metastasis that is almost
universally fatal. This should include using genomics to identify primary
breast cancers most at risk of relapse and to characterize disseminated tumor
cells that are capable of metastasis formation.

We believe that these goals can be achieved through the joint results from
many large-scale, prospective initiatives that aim to better characterize
metastases and link molecular findings with meticulously annotated clinical
and treatment information. These initiatives include the AURORA program, the
Metastatic Breast Cancer Project (<https://www.mbcproject.org/users/new>), the
UK plasmaMATCH ([ISRCTN16945804](/external-
ref?link_type=ISRCTN&access_num=ISRCTN16945804)), as well as the various rapid
autopsy programs (99, 110, 111). However, given the extensive intertumoral
heterogeneity of breast cancer, we must not dismiss the power of ‚Äún _of 1_‚Äù
studies and small case series that could deliver key insights into ultrarare
alterations and associated treatment resistance and response.

A large amount of genomic data from several thousand breast cancers has
already been generated, and further value can almost certainly be extracted
from this. For example, a combined analysis, although challenging on account
of the heterogeneity of the datasets, would have much higher power to detect
rare mutations than any individual study to date. Supporting such a
collaborative approach is the AACR Project Genomics Evidence Neoplasia
Information Exchange (GENIE; <http://www.aacr.org/Research/Research/Pages
/aacr-project-genie.aspx#.WH6TMnCFNOC>), an international data-sharing project
that aims to collate genomic and clinical data from tens of thousands of
patients in multiple institutions.

Great enthusiasm accompanied the initial years of the genomic revolution as a
flood of novel insights into the breast cancer genome were presented in quick
succession. We now have a clearer idea not only of the potential clinical
applications of genomics but also of the scale and nature of the challenges
that must be surmounted to bring maximum benefit to breast cancer patients. It
is clear that delivering personalized breast cancer treatments to all patients
in the future will only be possible if we focus on collaborative and
integrative approaches now.

## Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest

No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.

## Grant Support

This work was supported by a grant from Les Amis de Bordet (to C. Desmedt).

## Footnotes

  * **Note:** Supplementary data for this article are available at Clinical Cancer Research Online (http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/).

  * Received January 20, 2017.
  * Revision received March 6, 2017.
  * Accepted April 6, 2017.
  * ¬©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

## References

  1. 1.‚Üµ

    1. Weigelt B, 
    2. Pusztai L, 
    3. Ashworth A, 
    4. Reis-Filho JS
. Challenges translating breast cancer gene signatures into the clinic. Nat
Rev Clin Oncol 2011;9:58‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D9%26rft.spage%253D58%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinonc.
2011.125%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21878891%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft
_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ3
9.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2011.125&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=21878891&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  2. 2.‚Üµ

    1. Gingras I, 
    2. Desmedt C, 
    3. Ignatiadis M, 
    4. Sotiriou C
. CCR 20th Anniversary Commentary: gene-expression signature in breast
cancer‚Äìwhere did it start and where are we now? Clin Cancer Res
2015;21:4743‚Äì6.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClinical%2BCancer%2BResearch%26rft.st
itle%253DClin.%2BCancer%2BRes.%26rft.aulast%253DGingras%26rft.auinit1%253DI.%2
6rft.volume%253D21%26rft.issue%253D21%26rft.spage%253D4743%26rft.epage%253D474
6%26rft.atitle%253DCCR%2B20th%2BAnniversary%2BCommentary%253A%2BGene-
Expression%2BSignature%2Bin%2BBreast%2BCancer--Where%2BDid%2BIt%2BStart%2Band%
2BWhere%2BAre%2BWe%2BNow%253F%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0
432.CCR-14-3127%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26527804%26rft.genre%253Darticl
e%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver
%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzO
jQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R
5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToic
mVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIxLzIxLzQ3NDMiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTE
vMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  3. 3.‚Üµ

    1. Shah SP, 
    2. Roth A, 
    3. Goya R, 
    4. Oloumi A, 
    5. Ha G, 
    6. Zhao Y, 
    7. et al.
The clonal and mutational evolution spectrum of primary triple-negative breast
cancers. Nature 2012;486:395‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DShah%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%2BP.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%253
D7403%26rft.spage%253D395%26rft.epage%253D399%26rft.atitle%253DThe%2Bclonal%2B
and%2Bmutational%2Bevolution%2Bspectrum%2Bof%2Bprimary%2Btriple-negative%2Bbre
ast%2Bcancers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature10933%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22495314%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature10933&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22495314&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  4. 4.‚Üµ

    1. Stephens PJ, 
    2. Tarpey PS, 
    3. Davies H, 
    4. Van Loo P, 
    5. Greenman C, 
    6. Wedge DC, 
    7. et al.
The landscape of cancer genes and mutational processes in breast cancer.
Nature 2012;486:400‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DStephens%26rft.auinit1%253DP.%2BJ.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue
%253D7403%26rft.spage%253D400%26rft.epage%253D404%26rft.atitle%253DThe%2Blands
cape%2Bof%2Bcancer%2Bgenes%2Band%2Bmutational%2Bprocesses%2Bin%2Bbreast%2Bcanc
er.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11017%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Apmid%252F22722201%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252
Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.8
8-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRe
f](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11017&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722201&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  5. 5.‚Üµ

    1. Banerji S, 
    2. Cibulskis K, 
    3. Rangel-Escareno C, 
    4. Brown KK, 
    5. Carter SL, 
    6. Frederick AM, 
    7. et al.
Sequence analysis of mutations and translocations across breast cancer
subtypes. Nature 2012;486:405‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DBanerji%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%253D7
403%26rft.spage%253D405%26rft.epage%253D409%26rft.atitle%253DSequence%2Banalys
is%2Bof%2Bmutations%2Band%2Btranslocations%2Bacross%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bsubtyp
es.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11154%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Apmid%252F22722202%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252
Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.8
8-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRe
f](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11154&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722202&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  6. 6.‚Üµ

    1. Ciriello G, 
    2. Gatza ML, 
    3. Beck AH, 
    4. Wilkerson MD, 
    5. Rhie SK, 
    6. Pastore A, 
    7. et al.
Comprehensive molecular portraits of invasive lobular breast cancer. Cell
2015;163:506‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%26rft.volume%253D163%26rft.spage
%253D506%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.cell.2015.09.033%26rft_id
%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26451490%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo
%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
ctx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.cell.2015.09.033&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26451490&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  7. 7.‚Üµ

    1. Ellis MJ, 
    2. Ding L, 
    3. Shen D, 
    4. Luo J, 
    5. Suman VJ, 
    6. Wallis JW, 
    7. et al.
Whole-genome analysis informs breast cancer response to aromatase inhibition.
Nature 2012;486:353‚Äì60.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DEllis%26rft.auinit1%253DM.%2BJ.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%25
3D7403%26rft.spage%253D353%26rft.epage%253D360%26rft.atitle%253DWhole-genome%2
Banalysis%2Binforms%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bresponse%2Bto%2Baromatase%2Binhibition
.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11143%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253A
pmid%252F22722193%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ff
mt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef]
(/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11143&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722193&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  8. 8.‚Üµ

The Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular portraits of human
breast tumours. Nature 2012;490:61‚Äì70.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DKoboldt%26rft.auinit1%253DD.%2BC.%26rft.volume%253D490%26rft.issue%
253D7418%26rft.spage%253D61%26rft.epage%253D70%26rft.atitle%253DComprehensive%
2Bmolecular%2Bportraits%2Bof%2Bhuman%2Bbreast%2Btumours.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11412%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23000897%26rft
.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
journal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253D
info%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11412&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23000897&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  9. 9.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Davies H, 
    3. Staaf J, 
    4. Ramakrishna M, 
    5. Glodzik D, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
Landscape of somatic mutations in 560 breast cancer whole-genome sequences.
Nature 2016;534:47‚Äì54.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D534%26rft.spa
ge%253D47%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature17676%26rft_id%253Di
nfo%253Apmid%252F27135926%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Ao
fi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[C
rossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature17676&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27135926&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  10. 10.‚Üµ

    1. Pereira B, 
    2. Chin SF, 
    3. Rueda OM, 
    4. Vollan HK, 
    5. Provenzano E, 
    6. Bardwell HA, 
    7. et al.
The somatic mutation profiles of 2,433 breast cancers refines their genomic
and transcriptomic landscapes. Nat Commun 2016;7:11479.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D11479%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  11. 11.‚Üµ

    1. Ross JS, 
    2. Badve S, 
    3. Wang K, 
    4. Sheehan CE, 
    5. Boguniewicz AB, 
    6. Otto GA, 
    7. et al.
Genomic profiling of advanced-stage, metaplastic breast carcinoma by next-
generation sequencing reveals frequent, targetable genomic abnormalities and
potential new treatment options. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2015;139:642‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DArch%2BPathol%2BLab%2BMed%26rft.volum
e%253D139%26rft.spage%253D642%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.5858%252Farpa.2
014-0200-OA%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25927147%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26
rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.5858/arpa.2014-0200-OA&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25927147&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  12. 12.‚Üµ

    1. Vranic S, 
    2. Marchio C, 
    3. Castellano I, 
    4. Botta C, 
    5. Scalzo MS, 
    6. Bender RP, 
    7. et al.
Immunohistochemical and molecular profiling of histologically defined apocrine
carcinomas of the breast. Hum Pathol 2015;46:1350‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHum%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D46%26rf
t.spage%253D1350%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  13. 13.‚Üµ

    1. Michaut M, 
    2. Chin SF, 
    3. Majewski I, 
    4. Severson TM, 
    5. Bismeijer T, 
    6. de Koning L, 
    7. et al.
Integration of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic data identifies two
biologically distinct subtypes of invasive lobular breast cancer. Sci Rep
2016;6:18517.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DSci%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft.sp
age%253D18517%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fsrep18517%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26729235%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/srep18517&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?a
ccess_num=26729235&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  14. 14.‚Üµ

    1. Piscuoglio S, 
    2. Ng CK, 
    3. Murray MP, 
    4. Guerini-Rocco E, 
    5. Martelotto LG, 
    6. Geyer FC, 
    7. et al.
The genomic landscape of male breast cancers. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:4045‚Äì56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-15-2840%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
26960396%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIyLzE2LzQwNDUiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  15. 15.‚Üµ

    1. Weisman PS, 
    2. Ng CK, 
    3. Brogi E, 
    4. Eisenberg RE, 
    5. Won HH, 
    6. Piscuoglio S, 
    7. et al.
Genetic alterations of triple negative breast cancer by targeted next-
generation sequencing and correlation with tumor morphology. Mod Pathol
2016;29:476‚Äì88.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMod%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D29%26rf
t.spage%253D476%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  16. 16.‚Üµ

    1. Marchio C, 
    2. Geyer FC, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Piscuoglio S, 
    5. De Filippo MR, 
    6. Cupo M, 
    7. et al.
The genetic landscape of breast carcinomas with neuroendocrine
differentiation. J Pathol 2016;241:405‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D241%26rft
.spage%253D405%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  17. 17.‚Üµ

    1. Desmedt C, 
    2. Zoppoli G, 
    3. Gundem G, 
    4. Pruneri G, 
    5. Larsimont D, 
    6. Fornili M, 
    7. et al.
Genomic characterization of primary invasive lobular breast cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2016;34:1872‚Äì81.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2015.64.0334%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26926684
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiIzNC8xNi8xODcyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2Fu
cmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  18. 18.‚Üµ

    1. Dieci MV, 
    2. Smutna V, 
    3. Scott V, 
    4. Yin G, 
    5. Xu R, 
    6. Vielh P, 
    7. et al.
Whole exome sequencing of rare aggressive breast cancer histologies. Breast
Cancer Res Treat 2016;156:21‚Äì32.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D156%26rft.spage%253D21%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)

  19. 19.‚Üµ

    1. Lawrence MS, 
    2. Stojanov P, 
    3. Polak P, 
    4. Kryukov GV, 
    5. Cibulskis K, 
    6. Sivachenko A, 
    7. et al.
Mutational heterogeneity in cancer and the search for new cancer-associated
genes. Nature 2013;499:214‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D499%26rft.spa
ge%253D214%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12213%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F23770567%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12213&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23770567&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  20. 20.‚Üµ

    1. Gonzalez-Perez A, 
    2. Perez-Llamas C, 
    3. Deu-Pons J, 
    4. Tamborero D, 
    5. Schroeder MP, 
    6. Jene-Sanz A, 
    7. et al.
IntOGen-mutations identifies cancer drivers across tumor types. Nat Methods
2013;10:1081‚Äì2.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMethods%26rft.volume%253D10%26r
ft.spage%253D1081%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnmeth.2642%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24037244%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nmeth.2642&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=24037244&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  21. 21.‚Üµ

    1. Reimand J, 
    2. Bader GD
. Systematic analysis of somatic mutations in phosphorylation signaling
predicts novel cancer drivers. Mol Syst Biol 2013;9:637.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMol%2BSyst%2BBiol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%2
53Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fmsb.2012.68%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23340843%26r
ft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/look
up/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5Ijth
OjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MzoibXNiIj
tzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjkvMS82MzciO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMv
MTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  22. 22.‚Üµ

    1. Dees ND, 
    2. Zhang Q, 
    3. Kandoth C, 
    4. Wendl MC, 
    5. Schierding W, 
    6. Koboldt DC, 
    7. et al.
MuSiC: identifying mutational significance in cancer genomes. Genome Res
2012;22:1589‚Äì98.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.134635.111%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22759861%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6IjIyLzgvMTU4OSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8
yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  23. 23.‚Üµ

    1. Martincorena I, 
    2. Roshan A, 
    3. Gerstung M, 
    4. Ellis P, 
    5. Van Loo P, 
    6. McLaren S, 
    7. et al.
Tumor evolution. High burden and pervasive positive selection of somatic
mutations in normal human skin. Science 2015;348:880‚Äì6.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%26rft.stitle%253DScience%26rf
t.aulast%253DMartincorena%26rft.auinit1%253DI.%26rft.volume%253D348%26rft.issu
e%253D6237%26rft.spage%253D880%26rft.epage%253D886%26rft.atitle%253DHigh%2Bbur
den%2Band%2Bpervasive%2Bpositive%2Bselection%2Bof%2Bsomatic%2Bmutations%2Bin%2
Bnormal%2Bhuman%2Bskin%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscience.aaa68
06%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25999502%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%2
53Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3
M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoi
QUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoic2NpIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEyOiIzNDgvNj
IzNy84ODAiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4
OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  24. 24.‚Üµ

    1. Meyer MJ, 
    2. Lapcevic R, 
    3. Romero AE, 
    4. Yoon M, 
    5. Das J, 
    6. Beltran JF, 
    7. et al.
mutation3D: cancer gene prediction through atomic clustering of coding
variants in the structural proteome. Hum Mutat 2016;37:447‚Äì56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHum%2BMutat%26rft.volume%253D37%26rft
.spage%253D447%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  25. 25.‚Üµ

    1. Zhao J, 
    2. Zhang S, 
    3. Wu LY, 
    4. Zhang XS
. Efficient methods for identifying mutated driver pathways in cancer.
Bioinformatics 2012;28:2940‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBioinformatics%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253A
doi%252F10.1093%252Fbioinformatics%252Fbts564%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2
2982574%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev
%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full 
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6NzoiYmlvaW5mbyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czoxMDoiMjgvMjIvMjk0MCI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3O
iIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  26. 26.‚Üµ

    1. Ciriello G, 
    2. Cerami E, 
    3. Sander C, 
    4. Schultz N
. Mutual exclusivity analysis identifies oncogenic network modules. Genome Res
2012;22:398‚Äì406.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.125567.111%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21908773%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjIyLzIvMzk4IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzI
zLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  27. 27.‚Üµ

    1. Leiserson MD, 
    2. Blokh D, 
    3. Sharan R, 
    4. Raphael BJ
. Simultaneous identification of multiple driver pathways in cancer. PLoS
Comput Biol 2013;9:e1003054.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BComput%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253
D9%26rft.spage%253De1003054%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1371%252Fjournal.
pcbi.1003054%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23717195%26rft.genre%253Darticle%2
6rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003054&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=23717195&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  28. 28.‚Üµ

    1. Hou JP, 
    2. Ma J
. DawnRank: discovering personalized driver genes in cancer. Genome Med
2014;6:56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D56%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13073-014-0056-8%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25177370%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253D
info%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26u
rl_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%
253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13073-014-0056-8&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25177370&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  29. 29.‚Üµ

    1. Lawrence MS, 
    2. Stojanov P, 
    3. Mermel CH, 
    4. Robinson JT, 
    5. Garraway LA, 
    6. Golub TR, 
    7. et al.
Discovery and saturation analysis of cancer genes across 21 tumour types.
Nature 2014;505:495‚Äì501.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D505%26rft.spa
ge%253D495%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12912%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F24390350%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12912&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=24390350&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  30. 30.‚Üµ

    1. Lefebvre C, 
    2. Bachelot T, 
    3. Filleron T, 
    4. Pedrero M, 
    5. Campone M, 
    6. Soria JC, 
    7. et al.
Mutational profile of metastatic breast cancers: a retrospective analysis.
PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002201.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002201%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  31. 31.‚Üµ

    1. Kehr EL, 
    2. Jorns JM, 
    3. Ang D, 
    4. Warrick A, 
    5. Neff T, 
    6. Degnin M, 
    7. et al.
Mucinous breast carcinomas lack PIK3CA and AKT1 mutations. Hum Pathol
2012;43:2207‚Äì12.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHuman%2Bpathology%26rft.stitle%253DHu
m%2BPathol%26rft.aulast%253DKehr%26rft.auinit1%253DE.%2BL.%26rft.volume%253D43
%26rft.issue%253D12%26rft.spage%253D2207%26rft.epage%253D2212%26rft.atitle%253
DMucinous%2Bbreast%2Bcarcinomas%2Black%2BPIK3CA%2Band%2BAKT1%2Bmutations.%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.humpath.2012.03.012%26rft_id%253Dinfo%
253Apmid%252F22705004%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cross
Ref](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.humpath.2012.03.012&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=22705004&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  32. 32.‚Üµ

    1. Martelotto LG, 
    2. De Filippo MR, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Natrajan R, 
    5. Fuhrmann L, 
    6. Cyrta J, 
    7. et al.
Genomic landscape of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the breast. J Pathol
2015;237:179‚Äì89.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D237%26rft
.spage%253D179%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  33. 33.‚Üµ

    1. Ng CKY, 
    2. Piscuoglio S, 
    3. Geyer FC, 
    4. Burke KA, 
    5. Pareja F, 
    6. Eberle CA, 
    7. et al.
The landscape of somatic genetic alterations in metaplastic breast carcinomas.
Clin Cancer Res 2017 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print].

  34. 34.‚Üµ

    1. Toy W, 
    2. Shen Y, 
    3. Won H, 
    4. Green B, 
    5. Sakr RA, 
    6. Will M, 
    7. et al.
ESR1 ligand-binding domain mutations in hormone-resistant breast cancer. Nat
Genet 2013;45:1439‚Äì45.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D45%26rft
.spage%253D1439%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fng.2822%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24185512%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ng.2822&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24185512&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  35. 35.‚Üµ

    1. Miller CA, 
    2. Gindin Y, 
    3. Lu C, 
    4. Griffith OL, 
    5. Griffith M, 
    6. Shen D, 
    7. et al.
Aromatase inhibition remodels the clonal architecture of estrogen-receptor-
positive breast cancers. Nat Commun 2016;7:12498.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D12498%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  36. 36.‚Üµ

    1. Yates LR, 
    2. Gerstung M, 
    3. Knappskog S, 
    4. Desmedt C, 
    5. Gundem G, 
    6. Van Loo P, 
    7. et al.
Subclonal diversification of primary breast cancer revealed by multiregion
sequencing. Nat Med 2015;21:751‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D21%26rft.s
page%253D751%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnm.3886%26rft_id%253Din
fo%253Apmid%252F26099045%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aof
i%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cr
ossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nm.3886&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=26099045&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  37. 37.‚Üµ

    1. Balko JM, 
    2. Giltnane JM, 
    3. Wang K, 
    4. Schwarz LJ, 
    5. Young CD, 
    6. Cook RS, 
    7. et al.
Molecular profiling of the residual disease of triple-negative breast cancers
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy identifies actionable therapeutic targets.
Cancer Discov 2014;4:232‚Äì45.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-13-0286%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24356
096%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo3OiI0LzIvMjMyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY
2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  38. 38.‚Üµ

    1. Ng CK, 
    2. Martelotto LG, 
    3. Gauthier A, 
    4. Wen HC, 
    5. Piscuoglio S, 
    6. Lim RS, 
    7. et al.
Intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity and alternative driver genetic alterations
in breast cancers with heterogeneous HER2 gene amplification. Genome Biol
2015;16:107.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253D16%26r
ft.spage%253D107%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13059-015-0657-6%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25994018%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13059-015-0657-6&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25994018&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  39. 39.‚Üµ

    1. Martelotto LG, 
    2. Baslan T, 
    3. Kendall J, 
    4. Geyer FC, 
    5. Burke KA, 
    6. Spraggon L, 
    7. et al.
Whole-genome single-cell copy number profiling from formalin-fixed paraffin-
embedded samples. Nat Med 2017;23:376‚Äì85.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.s
page%253D376%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  40. 40.‚Üµ

    1. Juric D, 
    2. Castel P, 
    3. Griffith M, 
    4. Griffith OL, 
    5. Won HH, 
    6. Ellis H, 
    7. et al.
Convergent loss of PTEN leads to clinical resistance to a PI(3)Kalpha
inhibitor. Nature 2015;518:240‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D518%26rft.spa
ge%253D240%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature13948%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F25409150%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature13948&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=25409150&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  41. 41.‚Üµ

    1. Goodwin S, 
    2. McPherson JD, 
    3. McCombie WR
. Coming of age: ten years of next-generation sequencing technologies. Nat Rev
Genet 2016;17:333‚Äì51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D17
%26rft.spage%253D333%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrg.2016.49%26r
ft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27184599%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253
Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26
url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx
%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrg.2016.49&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27184599&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  42. 42.‚Üµ

    1. Navin N, 
    2. Kendall J, 
    3. Troge J, 
    4. Andrews P, 
    5. Rodgers L, 
    6. McIndoo J, 
    7. et al.
Tumour evolution inferred by single-cell sequencing. Nature 2011;472:90‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DNavin%26rft.auinit1%253DN.%26rft.volume%253D472%26rft.issue%253D734
1%26rft.spage%253D90%26rft.epage%253D94%26rft.atitle%253DTumour%2Bevolution%2B
inferred%2Bby%2Bsingle-cell%2Bsequencing.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.103
8%252Fnature09807%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21399628%26rft.genre%253Darti
cle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature09807&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=21399628&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  43. 43.‚Üµ

    1. Niu B, 
    2. Scott AD, 
    3. Sengupta S, 
    4. Bailey MH, 
    5. Batra P, 
    6. Ning J, 
    7. et al.
Protein-structure-guided discovery of functional mutations across 19 cancer
types. Nat Genet 2016;48:827‚Äì37.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D48%26rft
.spage%253D827%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  44. 44.‚Üµ

    1. Katigbak A, 
    2. Cencic R, 
    3. Robert F, 
    4. Senecha P, 
    5. Scuoppo C, 
    6. Pelletier J
. A CRISPR/Cas9 functional screen identifies rare tumor suppressors. Sci Rep
2016;6:38968.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DSci%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft.sp
age%253D38968%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004
%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  45. 45.‚Üµ

    1. Janku F, 
    2. Wheler JJ, 
    3. Westin SN, 
    4. Moulder SL, 
    5. Naing A, 
    6. Tsimberidou AM, 
    7. et al.
PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitors in patients with breast and gynecologic malignancies
harboring PIK3CA mutations. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:777‚Äì82.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2011.36.1196%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22271473
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjMwLzgvNzc3IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVz
LzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  46. 46.‚Üµ

    1. Dawood S, 
    2. Broglio K, 
    3. Buzdar AU, 
    4. Hortobagyi GN, 
    5. Giordano SH
. Prognosis of women with metastatic breast cancer by HER2 status and
trastuzumab treatment: an institutional-based review. J Clin Oncol
2010;28:92‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2008.19.9844%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F19933921
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjI4LzEvOTIiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMv
MjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  47. 47.‚Üµ

    1. Patel JH, 
    2. Loboda AP, 
    3. Showe MK, 
    4. Showe LC, 
    5. McMahon SB
. Analysis of genomic targets reveals complex functions of MYC. Nat Rev Cancer
2004;4:562‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%2Breviews.%2BCancer%26rft.stit
le%253DNat%2BRev%2BCancer%26rft.aulast%253DPatel%26rft.auinit1%253DJ.%2BH.%26r
ft.volume%253D4%26rft.issue%253D7%26rft.spage%253D562%26rft.epage%253D568%26rf
t.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2Bgenomic%2Btargets%2Breveals%2Bcomplex%2Bfunctions
%2Bof%2BMYC.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrc1393%26rft_id%253Din
fo%253Apmid%252F15229481%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aof
i%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cr
ossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrc1393&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=15229481&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  48. 48.‚Üµ

    1. Prochownik EV, 
    2. Vogt PK
. Therapeutic targeting of Myc. Genes Cancer 2010;1:650‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenes%2BCancer%26rft.volume%253D1%26r
ft.spage%253D650%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1177%252F1947601910377494%26
rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21132100%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1177/1947601910377494&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=21132100&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  49. 49.‚Üµ

    1. Muller PA, 
    2. Vousden KH
. Mutant p53 in cancer: new functions and therapeutic opportunities. Cancer
Cell 2014;25:304‚Äì17.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BCell%26rft.volume%253D25%26r
ft.spage%253D304%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.ccr.2014.01.021%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24651012%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.ccr.2014.01.021&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24651012&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  50. 50.‚Üµ

    1. Ellis MJ, 
    2. Perou CM
. The genomic landscape of breast cancer as a therapeutic roadmap. Cancer
Discov 2013;3:27‚Äì34.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscovery%26rft.stitle%253DC
ancer%2BDiscovery%26rft.aulast%253DEllis%26rft.auinit1%253DM.%2BJ.%26rft.volum
e%253D3%26rft.issue%253D1%26rft.spage%253D27%26rft.epage%253D34%26rft.atitle%2
53DThe%2BGenomic%2BLandscape%2Bof%2BBreast%2BCancer%2Bas%2Ba%2BTherapeutic%2BR
oadmap%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-12-0462%26rft_id
%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23319768%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo
%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
ctx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb
29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czo
xMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NzoiY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo2OiIzLzEvMjciO3M6N
DoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI
7czowOiIiO30=)

  51. 51.‚Üµ

    1. Posternak V, 
    2. Cole MD
. Strategically targeting MYC in cancer. F1000Res 2016;5.

  52. 52.‚Üµ

    1. Horiuchi D, 
    2. Camarda R, 
    3. Zhou AY, 
    4. Yau C, 
    5. Momcilovic O, 
    6. Balakrishnan S, 
    7. et al.
PIM1 kinase inhibition as a targeted therapy against triple-negative breast
tumors with elevated MYC expression. Nat Med 2016;22:1321‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D22%26rft.s
page%253D1321%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004
%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  53. 53.‚Üµ

    1. Baselga J, 
    2. Campone M, 
    3. Piccart M, 
    4. Burris HA III., 
    5. Rugo HS, 
    6. Sahmoud T, 
    7. et al.
Everolimus in postmenopausal hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2012;366:520‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNew%2BEngland%2BJournal%2Bof%2BMedici
ne%26rft.stitle%253DNEJM%26rft.aulast%253DBaselga%26rft.auinit1%253DJ.%26rft.v
olume%253D366%26rft.issue%253D6%26rft.spage%253D520%26rft.epage%253D529%26rft.
atitle%253DEverolimus%2Bin%2Bpostmenopausal%2Bhormone-receptor-positive%2Badva
nced%2Bbreast%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa110965
3%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22149876%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%25
3Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1109653&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=22149876&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  54. 54.‚Üµ

    1. Turner NC, 
    2. Ro J, 
    3. Andre F, 
    4. Loi S, 
    5. Verma S, 
    6. Iwata H, 
    7. et al.
Palbociclib in hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med
2015;373:209‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
73%26rft.spage%253D209%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1505270
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26030518%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1505270&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=26030518&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  55. 55.‚Üµ

    1. Finn RS, 
    2. Crown JP, 
    3. Ettl J, 
    4. Schmidt M, 
    5. Bondarenko IM, 
    6. Lang I, 
    7. et al.
Efficacy and safety of palbociclib in combination with letrozole as first-line
treatment of ER-positive, HER2-negative, advanced breast cancer: expanded
analyses of subgroups from the randomized pivotal trial PALOMA-1/TRIO-18.
Breast Cancer Res 2016;18:67.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft.volume%25
3D18%26rft.spage%253D67%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi
%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ
39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  56. 56.‚Üµ

    1. Hortobagyi GN, 
    2. Chen D, 
    3. Piccart M, 
    4. Rugo HS, 
    5. Burris HA III., 
    6. Pritchard KI, 
    7. et al.
Correlative analysis of genetic alterations and everolimus benefit in hormone
receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative advanced
breast cancer: results from BOLERO-2. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:419‚Äì26.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2014.60.1971%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26503204
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjM0LzUvNDE5IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVz
LzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  57. 57.‚Üµ

    1. Arnedos M, 
    2. Vicier C, 
    3. Loi S, 
    4. Lefebvre C, 
    5. Michiels S, 
    6. Bonnefoi H, 
    7. et al.
Precision medicine for metastatic breast cancer‚Äìlimitations and solutions. Nat
Rev Clin Oncol 2015;12:693‚Äì704.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D12%26rft.spage%253D693%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinon
c.2015.123%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26196250%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26r
ft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.123&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26196250&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  58. 58.‚Üµ

    1. Hyman DM, 
    2. Puzanov I, 
    3. Subbiah V, 
    4. Faris JE, 
    5. Chau I, 
    6. Blay JY, 
    7. et al.
Vemurafenib in multiple nonmelanoma cancers with BRAF V600 mutations. N Engl J
Med 2015;373:726‚Äì36.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
73%26rft.spage%253D726%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1502309
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26287849%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1502309&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=26287849&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  59. 59.‚Üµ

    1. Alexandrov LB, 
    2. Nik-Zainal S, 
    3. Wedge DC, 
    4. Aparicio SA, 
    5. Behjati S, 
    6. Biankin AV, 
    7. et al.
Signatures of mutational processes in human cancer. Nature 2013;500:415‚Äì21.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D500%26rft.spa
ge%253D415%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12477%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F23945592%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12477&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23945592&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  60. 60.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Alexandrov LB, 
    3. Wedge DC, 
    4. Van Loo P, 
    5. Greenman CD, 
    6. Raine K, 
    7. et al.
Mutational processes molding the genomes of 21 breast cancers. Cell
2012;149:979‚Äì93.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%26rft.stitle%253DCell%26rft.aula
st%253DNik-Zainal%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%26rft.volume%253D149%26rft.issue%253D5%
26rft.spage%253D979%26rft.epage%253D993%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2Bprocesse
s%2Bmolding%2Bthe%2Bgenomes%2Bof%2B21%2Bbreast%2Bcancers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.cell.2012.04.024%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F226080
84%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253A
mtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup
/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.cell.2012.04.024&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=22608084&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  61. 61.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Morganella S
. Mutational signatures in breast cancer: the problem at the DNA level. Clin
Cancer Res 2017;23:2617‚Äì29.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClinical%2BCancer%2BResearch%26rft.st
itle%253DClin.%2BCancer%2BRes.%26rft.aulast%253DNik-Zainal%26rft.auinit1%253DS
.%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.issue%253D11%26rft.spage%253D2617%26rft.epage%253D
2629%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2BSignatures%2Bin%2BBreast%2BCancer%253A%2BTh
e%2BProblem%2Bat%2Bthe%2BDNA%2BLevel%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252
F1078-0432.CCR-16-2810%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%
252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ3
9.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abst
ract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaW
psaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91
cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIzLzExLzI2MTciO3
M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVu
dCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  62. 62.‚Üµ

    1. Helleday T, 
    2. Eshtad S, 
    3. Nik-Zainal S
. Mechanisms underlying mutational signatures in human cancers. Nat Rev Genet
2014;15:585‚Äì98.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D15
%26rft.spage%253D585%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrg3729%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24981601%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrg3729&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24981601&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  63. 63.‚Üµ

    1. Telli ML, 
    2. Timms KM, 
    3. Reid J, 
    4. Hennessy B, 
    5. Mills GB, 
    6. Jensen KC, 
    7. et al.
Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) score predicts response to platinum-
containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with triple-negative breast
cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:3764‚Äì73.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-15-2477%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
26957554%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIyLzE1LzM3NjQiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  64. 64.‚Üµ

    1. Watkins JA, 
    2. Irshad S, 
    3. Grigoriadis A, 
    4. Tutt AN
. Genomic scars as biomarkers of homologous recombination deficiency and drug
response in breast and ovarian cancers. Breast Cancer Res 2014;16:211.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft.volume%25
3D16%26rft.spage%253D211%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fbcr3670%26r
ft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25093514%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253
Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26
url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx
%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/bcr3670&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=25093514&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  65. 65.‚Üµ

    1. Abkevich V, 
    2. Timms KM, 
    3. Hennessy BT, 
    4. Potter J, 
    5. Carey MS, 
    6. Meyer LA, 
    7. et al.
Patterns of genomic loss of heterozygosity predict homologous recombination
repair defects in epithelial ovarian cancer. Br J Cancer 2012;107:1776‚Äì82.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBritish%2BJournal%2Bof%2BCancer%26rft
.stitle%253DBritish%2BJournal%2Bof%2BCancer%26rft.aulast%253DAbkevich%26rft.au
init1%253DV.%26rft.volume%253D107%26rft.issue%253D10%26rft.spage%253D1776%26rf
t.epage%253D1782%26rft.atitle%253DPatterns%2Bof%2Bgenomic%2Bloss%2Bof%2Bhetero
zygosity%2Bpredict%2Bhomologous%2Brecombination%2Brepair%2Bdefects%2Bin%2Bepit
helial%2Bovarian%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fbjc.2012.
451%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23047548%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/bjc.2012.451&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-re
f?access_num=23047548&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  66. 66.‚Üµ

    1. Birkbak NJ, 
    2. Wang ZC, 
    3. Kim JY, 
    4. Eklund AC, 
    5. Li Q, 
    6. Tian R, 
    7. et al.
Telomeric allelic imbalance indicates defective DNA repair and sensitivity to
DNA-damaging agents. Cancer Discov 2012;2:366‚Äì75.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-11-0206%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22576
213%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo3OiIyLzQvMzY2IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY
2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  67. 67.‚Üµ

    1. Popova T, 
    2. Manie E, 
    3. Rieunier G, 
    4. Caux-Moncoutier V, 
    5. Tirapo C, 
    6. Dubois T, 
    7. et al.
Ploidy and large-scale genomic instability consistently identify basal-like
breast carcinomas with BRCA1/2 inactivation. Cancer Res 2012;72:5454‚Äì62.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-12-1470%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2293306
0%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiI3Mi8yMS81NDU0IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGl
uY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  68. 68.‚Üµ

    1. Glodzik D, 
    2. Morganella S, 
    3. Davies H, 
    4. Simpson PT, 
    5. Li Y, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
A somatic-mutational process recurrently duplicates germline susceptibility
loci and tissue-specific super-enhancers in breast cancers. Nat Genet
2017;49:341‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D49%26rft
.spage%253D341%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  69. 69.‚Üµ

    1. Antoniou AC, 
    2. Casadei S, 
    3. Heikkinen T, 
    4. Barrowdale D, 
    5. Pylkas K, 
    6. Roberts J, 
    7. et al.
Breast-cancer risk in families with mutations in PALB2. N Engl J Med
2014;371:497‚Äì506.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
71%26rft.spage%253D497%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1400382
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25099575%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1400382&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=25099575&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  70. 70.‚Üµ

    1. Davies H, 
    2. Glodzik D, 
    3. Morganella S, 
    4. Yates LR, 
    5. Staaf J, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
HRDetect is a predictor of BRCA1 and BRCA2 deficiency based on mutational
signatures. Nat Med 2017;23:517‚Äì25.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.s
page%253D517%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  71. 71.‚Üµ

    1. Natrajan R, 
    2. Mackay A, 
    3. Lambros MB, 
    4. Weigelt B, 
    5. Wilkerson PM, 
    6. Manie E, 
    7. et al.
A whole-genome massively parallel sequencing analysis of BRCA1 mutant
oestrogen receptor-negative and -positive breast cancers. J Pathol
2012;227:29‚Äì41.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DThe%2BJournal%2Bof%2Bpathology%26rft.
stitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.aulast%253DNatrajan%26rft.auinit1%253DR.%26rft.vol
ume%253D227%26rft.issue%253D1%26rft.spage%253D29%26rft.epage%253D41%26rft.atit
le%253DA%2Bwhole-genome%2Bmassively%2Bparallel%2Bsequencing%2Banalysis%2Bof%2B
BRCA1%2Bmutant%2Boestrogen%2Breceptor-negative%2Band%2B-positive%2Bbreast%2Bca
ncers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1002%252Fpath.4003%26rft_id%253Dinfo%2
53Apmid%252F22362584%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossR
ef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1002/path.4003&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?a
ccess_num=22362584&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  72. 72.‚Üµ

The Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization of
human colon and rectal cancer. Nature 2012;487:330‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
volume%253D487%26rft.issue%253D7407%26rft.spage%253D330%26rft.epage%253D337%26
rft.atitle%253DComprehensive%2Bmolecular%2Bcharacterization%2Bof%2Bhuman%2Bcol
on%2Band%2Brectal%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11
252%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22810696%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11252&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22810696&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  73. 73.‚Üµ

    1. Silwal-Pandit L, 
    2. Vollan HK, 
    3. Chin SF, 
    4. Rueda OM, 
    5. McKinney S, 
    6. Osako T, 
    7. et al.
TP53 mutation spectrum in breast cancer is subtype specific and has distinct
prognostic relevance. Clin Cancer Res 2014;20:3569‚Äì80.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-13-2943%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
24803582%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIwLzEzLzM1NjkiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  74. 74.‚Üµ

    1. Lakhani SR
, International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization. WHO
classification of tumours of the breast. Lyon, France: International Agency
for Research on Cancer; 2012.

  75. 75.‚Üµ

    1. Theodorou V, 
    2. Stark R, 
    3. Menon S, 
    4. Carroll JS
. GATA3 acts upstream of FOXA1 in mediating ESR1 binding by shaping enhancer
accessibility. Genome Res 2013;23:12‚Äì22.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.139469.112%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23172872%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjIzLzEvMTIiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjM
vMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  76. 76.‚Üµ

    1. Ross JS, 
    2. Gay LM, 
    3. Nozad S, 
    4. Wang K, 
    5. Ali SM, 
    6. Boguniewicz A, 
    7. et al.
Clinically advanced and metastatic pure mucinous carcinoma of the breast: a
comprehensive genomic profiling study. Breast Cancer Res Treat
2016;155:405‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D155%26rft.spage%253D405%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  77. 77.‚Üµ

    1. Shah SP, 
    2. Morin RD, 
    3. Khattra J, 
    4. Prentice L, 
    5. Pugh T, 
    6. Burleigh A, 
    7. et al.
Mutational evolution in a lobular breast tumour profiled at single nucleotide
resolution. Nature 2009;461:809‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DShah%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%2BP.%26rft.volume%253D461%26rft.issue%253
D7265%26rft.spage%253D809%26rft.epage%253D813%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2Bev
olution%2Bin%2Ba%2Blobular%2Bbreast%2Btumour%2Bprofiled%2Bat%2Bsingle%2Bnucleo
tide%2Bresolution.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature08489%26rft
_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F19812674%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%2
53Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature08489&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=19812674&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  78. 78.‚Üµ

    1. Ding L, 
    2. Ellis MJ, 
    3. Li S, 
    4. Larson DE, 
    5. Chen K, 
    6. Wallis JW, 
    7. et al.
Genome remodelling in a basal-like breast cancer metastasis and xenograft.
Nature 2010;464:999‚Äì1005.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DDing%26rft.auinit1%253DL.%26rft.volume%253D464%26rft.issue%253D7291
%26rft.spage%253D999%26rft.epage%253D1005%26rft.atitle%253DGenome%2Bremodellin
g%2Bin%2Ba%2Bbasal-like%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bmetastasis%2Band%2Bxenograft.%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature08989%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%2
52F20393555%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/look
up/external-ref?access_num=10.1038/nature08989&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=20393555&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  79. 79.‚Üµ

    1. Meric-Bernstam F, 
    2. Frampton GM, 
    3. Ferrer-Lozano J, 
    4. Yelensky R, 
    5. Perez-Fidalgo JA, 
    6. Wang Y, 
    7. et al.
Concordance of genomic alterations between primary and recurrent breast
cancer. Mol Cancer Ther 2014;13:1382‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMol%2BCancer%2BTher%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1535-7163.MCT-13-0482%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
24608573%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6Im1vbGNhbnRoZXIiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6OToiMTMvNS8xMzgyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6M
jc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  80. 80.‚Üµ

    1. Hoadley KA, 
    2. Siegel MB, 
    3. Kanchi KL, 
    4. Miller CA, 
    5. Ding L, 
    6. Zhao W, 
    7. et al.
Tumor evolution in two patients with basal-like breast cancer: a retrospective
genomics study of multiple metastases. PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002174.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002174%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  81. 81.‚Üµ

    1. Demeulemeester J, 
    2. Kumar P, 
    3. Moller EK, 
    4. Nord S, 
    5. Wedge DC, 
    6. Peterson A, 
    7. et al.
Tracing the origin of disseminated tumor cells in breast cancer using single-
cell sequencing. Genome Biol 2016;17:250.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253D17%26r
ft.spage%253D250%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13059-016-1109-7%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27931250%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13059-016-1109-7&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=27931250&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  82. 82.‚Üµ

    1. Brastianos PK, 
    2. Carter SL, 
    3. Santagata S, 
    4. Cahill DP, 
    5. Taylor-Weiner A, 
    6. Jones RT, 
    7. et al.
Genomic characterization of brain metastases reveals branched evolution and
potential therapeutic targets. Cancer Discov 2015;5:1164‚Äì77.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-15-0369%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26410
082%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo5OiI1LzExLzExNjQiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2Nsa
W5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  83. 83.‚Üµ

    1. Savas P, 
    2. Teo ZL, 
    3. Lefevre C, 
    4. Flensburg C, 
    5. Caramia F, 
    6. Alsop K, 
    7. et al.
The subclonal architecture of metastatic breast cancer: results from a
prospective community-based rapid autopsy program "CASCADE". PLoS Med
2016;13:e1002204.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002204%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  84. 84.‚Üµ

    1. Brown D, 
    2. Smeets D, 
    3. Sz√©kely B, 
    4. Larsimont D, 
    5. Sz√°sz AM, 
    6. Adnet PY, 
    7. et al.
Phylogenetic analysis of metastatic progression in breast cancer using somatic
mutations and copy number aberrations. Nat Commun 2017;8:14944.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D8%26rft
.spage%253D14944%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  85. 85.‚Üµ

    1. Achkar T, 
    2. Wilson J, 
    3. Simon J, 
    4. Rosenzweig M, 
    5. Puhalla S
. Metastatic breast cancer patients: attitudes toward tissue donation for
rapid autopsy. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2016;155:159‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D155%26rft.spage%253D159%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  86. 86.‚Üµ

    1. Yates L
. Abstract 1804 The driver landscape of breast cancer metastasis and relapse.
Eur J Cancer 2015;51:S266.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DEur%2BJ%2BCancer%26rft.volume%253D51%
26rft.spage%253DS266%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  87. 87.‚Üµ

    1. Li S, 
    2. Shen D, 
    3. Shao J, 
    4. Crowder R, 
    5. Liu W, 
    6. Prat A, 
    7. et al.
Endocrine-therapy-resistant ESR1 variants revealed by genomic characterization
of breast-cancer-derived xenografts. Cell Rep 2013;4:1116‚Äì30.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D4%26rft.s
page%253D1116%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.celrep.2013.08.022%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24055055%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.celrep.2013.08.022&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24055055&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  88. 88.‚Üµ

    1. Wang T, 
    2. Liu JH, 
    3. Zhang J, 
    4. Wang L, 
    5. Chen C, 
    6. Dai PG
. A multiplex allele-specific real-time PCR assay for screening of ESR1
mutations in metastatic breast cancer. Exp Mol Pathol 2015;98:152‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DExp%2BMol%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D9
8%26rft.spage%253D152%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  89. 89.‚Üµ

    1. Robinson DR, 
    2. Wu YM, 
    3. Vats P, 
    4. Su F, 
    5. Lonigro RJ, 
    6. Cao X, 
    7. et al.
Activating ESR1 mutations in hormone-resistant metastatic breast cancer. Nat
Genet 2013;45:1446‚Äì51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D45%26rft
.spage%253D1446%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fng.2823%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24185510%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ng.2823&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24185510&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  90. 90.‚Üµ

    1. Murtaza M, 
    2. Dawson SJ, 
    3. Pogrebniak K, 
    4. Rueda OM, 
    5. Provenzano E, 
    6. Grant J, 
    7. et al.
Multifocal clonal evolution characterized using circulating tumour DNA in a
case of metastatic breast cancer. Nat Commun 2015;6:8760.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D8760%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms9760%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26530965%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms9760&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=26530965&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  91. 91.‚Üµ

    1. Dawson SJ, 
    2. Tsui DW, 
    3. Murtaza M, 
    4. Biggs H, 
    5. Rueda OM, 
    6. Chin SF, 
    7. et al.
Analysis of circulating tumor DNA to monitor metastatic breast cancer. N Engl
J Med 2013;368:1199‚Äì209.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNew%2BEngland%2BJournal%2Bof%2BMedici
ne%26rft.stitle%253DNEJM%26rft.aulast%253DDawson%26rft.volume%253D368%26rft.sp
age%253D1199%26rft.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2BCirculating%2BTumor%2BDNA%2Bto%2
BMonitor%2BMetastatic%2BBreast%2BCancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056
%252FNEJMoa1213261%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23484797%26rft.genre%253Dart
icle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1213261&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=23484797&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  92. 92.‚Üµ

    1. De Mattos-Arruda L, 
    2. Weigelt B, 
    3. Cortes J, 
    4. Won HH, 
    5. Ng CK, 
    6. Nuciforo P, 
    7. et al.
Capturing intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity by de novo mutation profiling of
circulating cell-free tumor DNA: a proof-of-principle. Ann Oncol
2014;25:1729‚Äì35.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DAnn%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi
%252F10.1093%252Fannonc%252Fmdu239%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25009010%26r
ft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/look
up/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5Ijth
OjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiYW5ub2
5jIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6IjI1LzkvMTcyOSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJl
cy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  93. 93.‚Üµ

    1. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    2. Schiavon G, 
    3. Weigelt B, 
    4. Ng C, 
    5. Hrebien S, 
    6. Cutts RJ, 
    7. et al.
Mutation tracking in circulating tumor DNA predicts relapse in early breast
cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:302ra133.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DGarcia-Murillas%26rft.auini
t1%253DI.%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D302%26rft.spage%253D302ra133%26rf
t.epage%253D302ra133%26rft.atitle%253DMutation%2Btracking%2Bin%2Bcirculating%2
Btumor%2BDNA%2Bpredicts%2Brelapse%2Bin%2Bearly%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253D
info%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.aab0021%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%2
52F26311728%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE
Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtz
OjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZG
UiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjE0OiI3LzMwMi8zMDJyYTEzMyI7czo0
OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50Ij
tzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  94. 94.‚Üµ

    1. Gellert P, 
    2. Segal CV, 
    3. Gao Q, 
    4. Lopez-Knowles E, 
    5. Martin LA, 
    6. Dodson A, 
    7. et al.
Impact of mutational profiles on response of primary oestrogen receptor-
positive breast cancers to oestrogen deprivation. Nat Commun 2016;7:13294.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D13294%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  95. 95.‚Üµ

    1. Merenbakh-Lamin K, 
    2. Ben-Baruch N, 
    3. Yeheskel A, 
    4. Dvir A, 
    5. Soussan-Gutman L, 
    6. Jeselsohn R, 
    7. et al.
D538G mutation in estrogen receptor-alpha: a novel mechanism for acquired
endocrine resistance in breast cancer. Cancer Res 2013;73:6856‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-13-1197%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2421757
7%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiI3My8yMy82ODU2IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGl
uY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  96. 96.‚Üµ

    1. Schiavon G, 
    2. Hrebien S, 
    3. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    4. Cutts RJ, 
    5. Pearson A, 
    6. Tarazona N, 
    7. et al.
Analysis of ESR1 mutation in circulating tumor DNA demonstrates evolution
during therapy for metastatic breast cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:313ra182.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DSchiavon%26rft.auinit1%253D
G.%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D313%26rft.spage%253D313ra182%26rft.epage
%253D313ra182%26rft.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2BESR1%2Bmutation%2Bin%2Bcirculat
ing%2Btumor%2BDNA%2Bdemonstrates%2Bevolution%2Bduring%2Btherapy%2Bfor%2Bmetast
atic%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.
aac7551%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26560360%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_
val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253A
kev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhd
GgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M
6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkI
jtzOjE0OiI3LzMxMy8zMTNyYTE4MiI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8
yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  97. 97.‚Üµ

    1. Spoerke JM, 
    2. Gendreau S, 
    3. Walter K, 
    4. Qiu J, 
    5. Wilson TR, 
    6. Savage H, 
    7. et al.
Heterogeneity and clinical significance of ESR1 mutations in ER-positive
metastatic breast cancer patients receiving fulvestrant. Nat Commun
2016;7:11579.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D11579%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms11579%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27174596%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms11579&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27174596&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  98. 98.‚Üµ

    1. Fribbens C, 
    2. O'Leary B, 
    3. Kilburn L, 
    4. Hrebien S, 
    5. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    6. Beaney M, 
    7. et al.
Plasma ESR1 mutations and the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive advanced
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:2961‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2016.67.3061%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27269946
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiIzNC8yNS8yOTYxIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2Fu
cmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  99. 99.‚Üµ

    1. Oh C, 
    2. Waks A, 
    3. Oliver N, 
    4. Helvie K, 
    5. Marini L, 
    6. et al.
    1. Cohen O
Oh C, Waks A, Oliver N, Helvie K, Marini L, et al. Whole exome and
transcriptome sequencing of resistant ER+ metastatic breast cancer [abstract].
In: Proceedings of the 39th Annual San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium; 2016
Dec 6‚Äì10; San Antonio, TX. SABCS; 2016. Abstract nr S1-01.

  100. 100.‚Üµ

    1. Herrera-Abreu MT, 
    2. Palafox M, 
    3. Asghar U, 
    4. Rivas MA, 
    5. Cutts RJ, 
    6. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    7. et al.
Early adaptation and acquired resistance to CDK4/6 inhibition in estrogen
receptor-positive breast cancer. Cancer Res 2016;76:2301‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-15-0728%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2702085
7%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6Ijc2LzgvMjMwMSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmN
hbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  101. 101.‚Üµ

    1. Yang C, 
    2. Li Z, 
    3. Bhatt T, 
    4. Dickler M, 
    5. Giri D, 
    6. Scaltriti M, 
    7. et al.
Acquired CDK6 amplification promotes breast cancer resistance to CDK4/6
inhibitors and loss of ER signaling and dependence. Oncogene 2017;36:2255‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DOncogene%26rft.volume%253D36%26rft.sp
age%253D2255%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  102. 102.‚Üµ

    1. Chandarlapaty S, 
    2. Chen D, 
    3. He W, 
    4. Sung P, 
    5. Samoila A, 
    6. You D, 
    7. et al.
Prevalence of ESR1 mutations in cell-free DNA and outcomes in metastatic
breast cancer: a secondary analysis of the BOLERO-2 clinical trial. JAMA Oncol
2016;2:1310‚Äì5.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJAMA%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D2%26rft
.spage%253D1310%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  103. 103.‚Üµ

    1. De Mattos-Arruda L, 
    2. Mayor R, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Weigelt B, 
    5. Martinez-Ricarte F, 
    6. Torrejon D, 
    7. et al.
Cerebrospinal fluid-derived circulating tumour DNA better represents the
genomic alterations of brain tumours than plasma. Nat Commun 2015;6:8839.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D8839%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms9839%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26554728%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms9839&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=26554728&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  104. 104.‚Üµ

    1. Saini KS, 
    2. Loi S, 
    3. de Azambuja E, 
    4. Metzger-Filho O, 
    5. Saini ML, 
    6. Ignatiadis M, 
    7. et al.
Targeting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and Raf/MEK/ERK pathways in the treatment of
breast cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2013;39:935‚Äì46.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BTreat%2BRev%26rft.volume%253
D39%26rft.spage%253D935%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.ctrv.2013.
03.009%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23643661%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_v
al_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ak
ev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.ctrv.2013.03.009&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=23643661&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  105. 105.‚Üµ

    1. Bosch A, 
    2. Li Z, 
    3. Bergamaschi A, 
    4. Ellis H, 
    5. Toska E, 
    6. Prat A, 
    7. et al.
PI3K inhibition results in enhanced estrogen receptor function and dependence
in hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:283ra51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DBosch%26rft.auinit1%253DA.%
26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D283%26rft.spage%253D283ra51%26rft.epage%253
D283ra51%26rft.atitle%253DPI3K%2Binhibition%2Bresults%2Bin%2Benhanced%2Bestrog
en%2Breceptor%2Bfunction%2Band%2Bdependence%2Bin%2Bhormone%2Breceptor-positive
%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.aaa4
442%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25877889%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO
3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDo
iQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzO
jEzOiI3LzI4My8yODNyYTUxIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzA
uYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  106. 106.‚Üµ

    1. Andre F, 
    2. Bachelot T, 
    3. Commo F, 
    4. Campone M, 
    5. Arnedos M, 
    6. Dieras V, 
    7. et al.
Comparative genomic hybridisation array and DNA sequencing to direct treatment
of metastatic breast cancer: a multicentre, prospective trial
(SAFIR01/UNICANCER). Lancet Oncol 2014;15:267‚Äì74.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DLancet%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D15%26
rft.spage%253D267%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252FS1470-2045%252813%
252970611-9%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24508104%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26
rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/S1470-2045\(13\)70611-9&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24508104&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  107. 107.‚Üµ

    1. Hollebecque A, 
    2. Massard C, 
    3. De Baere T, 
    4. Auger N, 
    5. Lacroix L, 
    6. Koubi-Pick V, 
    7. et al.
Molecular screening for cancer treatment optimization (MOSCATO 01): a
prospective molecular triage trial-interim results. J Clin Oncol31, 2013
(suppl; abstr 2512).

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D31%
26rft.spage%253Dsupplabstr2512%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)

  108. 108.‚Üµ

    1. Le Tourneau C, 
    2. Delord JP, 
    3. Gon√ßalves A, 
    4. Gavoille C, 
    5. Dubot C, 
    6. Isambert N, 
    7. et al.
Molecularly targeted therapy based on tumour molecular profiling versus
conventional therapy for advanced cancer (SHIVA): a multicentre, open-label,
proof-of-concept, randomised, controlled phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol
2015;16:1324‚Äì34.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DLancet%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D16%26
rft.spage%253D1324%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252FS1470-2045%252815
%252900188-6%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26342236%26rft.genre%253Darticle%2
6rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/S1470-2045\(15\)00188-6&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26342236&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  109. 109.‚Üµ

    1. Klevebring D, 
    2. Lindberg J, 
    3. Rockberg J, 
    4. Hilliges C, 
    5. Hall P, 
    6. Sandberg M, 
    7. et al.
Exome sequencing of contralateral breast cancer identifies metastatic disease.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2015;151:319‚Äì24.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D151%26rft.spage%253D319%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  110. 110.‚Üµ

    1. Zardavas D, 
    2. Irrthum A, 
    3. Swanton C, 
    4. Piccart M
. Clinical management of breast cancer heterogeneity. Nat Rev Clin Oncol
2015;12:381‚Äì94.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D12%26rft.spage%253D381%26rft.atitle%253DCLINICAL%2BMANAGEMENT%2BOF%2BBREA
ST%2BCANCER%2BHETEROGENEITY%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinon
c.2015.73%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25895611%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rf
t_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ
39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.73&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25895611&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  111. 111.‚Üµ

    1. Alsop K, 
    2. Thorne H, 
    3. Sandhu S, 
    4. Hamilton A, 
    5. Mintoff C, 
    6. Christie E, 
    7. et al.
A community-based model of rapid autopsy in end-stage cancer patients. Nat
Biotechnol 2016;34:1010‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BBiotechnol%26rft.volume%253D34%
26rft.spage%253D1010%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

[View
Abstract](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630.abstract)

__[ Previous](/content/23/11/2617)[Next __](/content/23/11/2640)

__ Back to top

![Clinical Cancer Research: 23 \(11\)](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/
sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/highwire/clincanres/23/11.cover-
source.jpg?itok=piHUl6JA)

June 2017  
Volume 23, Issue 11

  * [Table of Contents](/content/23/11.toc)
  * [Table of Contents (PDF)](/content/23/11.toc.pdf)
  * [About the Cover](/content/23/11.cover-expansion)
  * [Editorial Board (PDF)](/content/clincanres/23/11/local/ed-board.pdf)

Search for this keyword

__

[Sign up for alerts](/alerts/toc/edit?destination=alerts)

[View this article with _**LENS**_](/lens/clincanres/23/11/2630)

##

__[ Open full page PDF](/content/clincanres/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

__[ Article Alerts](/)

User Name *

Password *

Sign In to Email Alerts with your Email Address

Email *

__[ Email Article](/)

Thank you for sharing this Clinical Cancer Research article.

NOTE: We request your email address only to inform the recipient that it was
you who recommended this article, and that it is not junk mail. We do not
retain these email addresses.

Your Email *

Your Name *

Send To *

Enter multiple addresses on separate lines or separate them with commas.

You are going to email the following  [Translational Genomics: Practical
Applications of the Genomic Revolution in Breast Cancer](/content/23/11/2630)

Message Subject  (Your Name) has forwarded a page to you from Clinical Cancer
Research

Message Body  (Your Name) thought you would be interested in this article in
Clinical Cancer Research.

Your Personal Message

CAPTCHA

This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to
prevent automated spam submissions.

__[ Citation Tools](/highwire/citation/153269/download)

Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Clin Cancer Res June 1 2017 (23) (11) 2630-2639; DOI:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548

## Citation Manager Formats

  * [BibTeX](/highwire/citation/153269/bibtext)
  * [Bookends](/highwire/citation/153269/bookends)
  * [EasyBib](/highwire/citation/153269/easybib)
  * [EndNote (tagged)](/highwire/citation/153269/endnote-tagged)
  * [EndNote 8 (xml)](/highwire/citation/153269/endnote-8-xml)
  * [Medlars](/highwire/citation/153269/medlars)
  * [Mendeley](/highwire/citation/153269/mendeley)
  * [Papers](/highwire/citation/153269/papers)
  * [RefWorks Tagged](/highwire/citation/153269/refworks-tagged)
  * [Ref Manager](/highwire/citation/153269/reference-manager)
  * [RIS](/highwire/citation/153269/ris)
  * [Zotero](/highwire/citation/153269/zotero)

__[ Share](/)

Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Clin Cancer Res June 1 2017 (23) (11) 2630-2639; DOI:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548

Share This Article: Copy

![del.icio.us logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/h
ighwire/highwire/images/delicious-32.png) ![Digg logo](https://clincancerres.a
acrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/digg.png) ![Reddit 
logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwi
re/images/reddit.png) ![Twitter logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/s
ites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/twitter.png) ![CiteULike logo](https
://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/c
iteyoulike.png) ![Facebook logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/
all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/fb-blue.png) ![Google logo](https://clinc
ancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/google-32
.png) ![Mendeley logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/module
s/highwire/highwire/images/mendeley.png)

  * [Tweet Widget](http://twitter.com/share?url=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630&count=horizontal&via=&text=Translational%20Genomics%3A%20Practical%20Applications%20of%20the%20Genomic%20Revolution%20in%20Breast%20Cancer&counturl=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Facebook Like](http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630&layout=button_count&show_faces=false&action=like&colorscheme=light&width=100&height=21&font=&locale=)
  * [Google Plus One](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630)

## Jump to section

  * [Article](/content/23/11/2630)

    * Abstract
    * Introduction
    * Application 1: Characterizing the Driver Landscape of Breast Cancer
    * Challenges
    * Application 2: Dynamic Mutational Processes and Repair Deficiencies
    * Challenges
    * Application 3: Supporting Molecular and Histologic Classification of Breast Cancers
    * Challenges
    * Application 4: Defining the Genomic Basis of Metastasis
    * Challenges
    * Application 5: Identifying Genomic Mechanisms of Resistance to Treatment
    * Challenges
    * Conclusions and Perspective
    * Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest
    * Grant Support
    * Footnotes
    * References

  * [Figures & Data](/content/23/11/2630.figures-only)
  * [Info & Metrics](/content/23/11/2630.article-info)
  * __[ PDF](/content/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

Advertisement

### __ Related Articles

### __ Cited By...

### __ More in this TOC Section

  * [Endpoints for Immuno-oncology Trials](/content/23/17/4959)

  * [Limitations and Challenges in Immuno-oncology Trials](/content/23/17/4992)

  * [Developing Early-Phase Combination Immunotherapy Trials](/content/23/17/4980)

[Show more CCR Focus](/content/by/section/CCR%20Focus)

  * [Home](/)
  * [Alerts](/alerts)
  * [Feedback](/feedback)
  * [Privacy Policy](http://aacrjournals.org/privacy-policy)
_[Facebook_](http://www.facebook.com/aacr.org)
_[Twitter_](https://twitter.com/CCR_AACR)
_[LinkedIn_](http://www.linkedin.com/company/american-association-for-cancer-
research)  _[YouTube_](http://www.youtube.com/user/AACRNews)
_[RSS_](/content/e-mail-alerts#rss)

## Articles

  * [Online First](/content/early/recent)
  * [Current Issue](/content/current)
  * [Past Issues](/content/by/year)
  * [CCR Focus Archive](/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
  * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)

## Info for

  * [Authors](/site/misc/journal_ifora.xhtml)
  * [Subscribers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
  * [Advertisers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Advertising.xhtml)
  * [Librarians](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/institutions-librarians)
  * [Reviewers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)

## About Clinical Cancer Research

  * [About the Journal](/site/misc/about.xhtml)
  * [Editorial Board](/site/misc/edboard.xhtml)
  * [Permissions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
  * [Submit a Manuscript](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)

![AACR logo](/sites/default/files/additional_assets/images/aacr_pref_footer_18
0x50.png)

Copyright (C) 2020 by the American Association for Cancer Research.

_Clinical Cancer Research_  
eISSN: 1557-3265  
ISSN: 1078-0432

Advertisement

Skip to main content

**COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.** [CDC health information](https://www.coronavirus.gov) [NIH research information](https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus)

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Open Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7
l6QAAAAilBMVEUAAAD////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////2N2iNAAAALXRSTlMAJuVMCaUE9M66Dtl6/Pn
v65RG6d/Sn4J0OznHwrKqm5CJgWRbVi0V6sCKVR5yLz5NAAABEElEQVR4AY2P6XKDMAyExWEOMCRAw
0HuI02P+v1fr1IN2HJmMt1fu/pmbQkmZXexaUp/ex7gWWG/UrPyb5e+vylbh5DROlZcycPuappcbsH
12CjSLjL//r2c11OSJcXTgiXFz2zJI21ZePNFlPLMXqXAiZjCnco12GpxEk/bC9oKmDxqBNpv0HbAl
eNMartGe3PwHmeVtqV+iEmY3ejqq4NT096iPXIa0Ye99l9om5DhQKFG7QfykpUTnPgRmMvK0cJnKnT
sqZVZ/kL5I1vygXLReuSjIFEkn5JWqCcq37cp7ezyx065Yjw6FRZY+y4HT8Rzq8u8Zw5hICtR9QPd6
3Kuf/MUXvIYXnLe5jyN059fYMIyqmUcc+gAAAAASUVORK5CYII=) ![Open Navigation](data:i
mage/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeBAMAAADJHrORAAAAElBMVEUAAAD///
////////////////8+Uq06AAAABXRSTlMAiHfvO9PV4LcAAAAoSURBVBjTYyAEnJSQgQqDaSgyCGYI
RQXofAz1joLIQISQ9aPuo8x9ABWaRO+IIVJ/AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC) ![Close Navigation](data
:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD/
//////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTlMAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc4
0AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnx
bCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzLZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEyt
mP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

![Close Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM
7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD///////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTl
MAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc40AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0
K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnxbCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzL
ZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEytmP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI_grey_teal.svg)

# Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics refers
to the study of genes and the way that certain traits or conditions are passed
down from one generation to another. Genomics describes the study of all of a
person's genes (the genome).

## What are genetics and genomics?

Genetics is a term that refers to the study of genes and their roles in
inheritance - in other words, the way that certain traits or conditions are
passed down from one generation to another. Genetics involves scientific
studies of genes and their effects. Genes (units of heredity) carry the
instructions for making proteins, which direct the activities of cells and
functions of the body. Examples of genetic or inherited disorders include
cystic fibrosis (See: [Learning About Cystic
Fibrosis](https://www.genome.gov/10001213/learning-about-cystic-fibrosis/)),
Huntington's disease ([Learning About Huntington's
Disease](https://www.genome.gov/10001215/learning-about-huntingtons-
disease/)), and phenylketonuria (PKU) ([Learning About
Phenylketonuria](https://www.genome.gov/25020037/learning-about-
phenylketonuria/)).

Genomics is a more recent term that describes the study of all of a person's
genes (the genome), including interactions of those genes with each other and
with the person's environment. Genomics includes the scientific study of
complex diseases such as heart disease, asthma, diabetes, and cancer because
these diseases are typically caused more by a combination of genetic and
environmental factors than by individual genes. Genomics is offering new
possibilities for therapies and treatments for some complex diseases, as well
as new diagnostic methods.

  * What are genetics and genomics?

Genetics is a term that refers to the study of genes and their roles in
inheritance - in other words, the way that certain traits or conditions are
passed down from one generation to another. Genetics involves scientific
studies of genes and their effects. Genes (units of heredity) carry the
instructions for making proteins, which direct the activities of cells and
functions of the body. Examples of genetic or inherited disorders include
cystic fibrosis (See: [Learning About Cystic
Fibrosis](https://www.genome.gov/10001213/learning-about-cystic-fibrosis/)),
Huntington's disease ([Learning About Huntington's
Disease](https://www.genome.gov/10001215/learning-about-huntingtons-
disease/)), and phenylketonuria (PKU) ([Learning About
Phenylketonuria](https://www.genome.gov/25020037/learning-about-
phenylketonuria/)).

Genomics is a more recent term that describes the study of all of a person's
genes (the genome), including interactions of those genes with each other and
with the person's environment. Genomics includes the scientific study of
complex diseases such as heart disease, asthma, diabetes, and cancer because
these diseases are typically caused more by a combination of genetic and
environmental factors than by individual genes. Genomics is offering new
possibilities for therapies and treatments for some complex diseases, as well
as new diagnostic methods.

## Why are genetics and genomics important to my health?

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics helps
individuals and families learn about how conditions such as sickle cell anemia
and cystic fibrosis are inherited in families, what screening and testing
options are available, and, for some genetic conditions, what treatments are
available. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions About Genetic
Disorders](https://www.genome.gov/19016930/faq-about-genetic-disorders/))

Genomics is helping researchers discover why some people get sick from certain
infections, environmental factors, and behaviors, while others do not. For
example, there are some people who exercise their whole lives, eat a healthy
diet, have regular medical checkups, and die of a heart attack at age 40.
There are also people who smoke, never exercise, eat unhealthy foods and live
to be 100. Genomics may hold the key to understanding these differences.

Apart from accidents (such as falls, motor vehicle accidents or poisoning),
genomic factors play a role in nine of the ten leading causes of death in the
United States (for example, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. See: [Leading
Causes of Death](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/FASTATS/lcod.htm) [cdc.gov]). All
human beings are 99.9 percent identical in their genetic makeup. Differences
in the remaining 0.1 percent hold important clues about the causes of
diseases. Gaining a better understanding of the interactions between genes and
the environment by means of genomics is helping researchers find better ways
to improve health and prevent disease, such as modifying diet and exercise
plans to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in people who carry
genetic predispositions to developing this disease.

  * Why are genetics and genomics important to my health?

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics helps
individuals and families learn about how conditions such as sickle cell anemia
and cystic fibrosis are inherited in families, what screening and testing
options are available, and, for some genetic conditions, what treatments are
available. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions About Genetic
Disorders](https://www.genome.gov/19016930/faq-about-genetic-disorders/))

Genomics is helping researchers discover why some people get sick from certain
infections, environmental factors, and behaviors, while others do not. For
example, there are some people who exercise their whole lives, eat a healthy
diet, have regular medical checkups, and die of a heart attack at age 40.
There are also people who smoke, never exercise, eat unhealthy foods and live
to be 100. Genomics may hold the key to understanding these differences.

Apart from accidents (such as falls, motor vehicle accidents or poisoning),
genomic factors play a role in nine of the ten leading causes of death in the
United States (for example, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. See: [Leading
Causes of Death](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/FASTATS/lcod.htm) [cdc.gov]). All
human beings are 99.9 percent identical in their genetic makeup. Differences
in the remaining 0.1 percent hold important clues about the causes of
diseases. Gaining a better understanding of the interactions between genes and
the environment by means of genomics is helping researchers find better ways
to improve health and prevent disease, such as modifying diet and exercise
plans to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in people who carry
genetic predispositions to developing this disease.

## Why are genetics and genomics important to my family's health?

Understanding more about diseases caused by a single gene (using genetics) and
complex diseases caused by multiple genes and environmental factors (using
genomics) can lead to earlier diagnoses, interventions, and targeted
treatments. A person's health is influenced by his/her family history and
shared environmental factors. This makes family history an important,
personalized tool that can help identify many of the causative factors for
conditions that also have a genetic component. The family history can serve as
the cornerstone for learning about genetic and genomic conditions in a family,
and for developing individualized approaches to disease prevention,
intervention, and treatment. (See: [My Family Health
Portrait](https://www.genome.gov/17516481/the-us-surgeon-generals-family-
history-initiative-family-history-initiative/)).

  * Why are genetics and genomics important to my family's health?

Understanding more about diseases caused by a single gene (using genetics) and
complex diseases caused by multiple genes and environmental factors (using
genomics) can lead to earlier diagnoses, interventions, and targeted
treatments. A person's health is influenced by his/her family history and
shared environmental factors. This makes family history an important,
personalized tool that can help identify many of the causative factors for
conditions that also have a genetic component. The family history can serve as
the cornerstone for learning about genetic and genomic conditions in a family,
and for developing individualized approaches to disease prevention,
intervention, and treatment. (See: [My Family Health
Portrait](https://www.genome.gov/17516481/the-us-surgeon-generals-family-
history-initiative-family-history-initiative/)).

## What are some of the new genetic and genomic techniques and technologies?

**Proteomics**

The suffix "-ome" comes from the Greek for _all_, _every_, or _complete_. It
was originally used in "genome," which refers to all the genes in a person or
other organism. Due to the success of large-scale biology projects such as the
sequencing of the human genome, the suffix "-ome" is now being used in other
research contexts. Proteomics is an example. The DNA sequence of genes carries
the instructions, or code, for building proteins. This DNA is transcribed into
a related molecule, RNA, which is then translated into proteins. Proteomics,
therefore, is a similar large-scale analysis of all the proteins in an
organism, tissue type, or cell (called the proteome). Proteomics can be used
to reveal specific, abnormal proteins that lead to diseases, such as certain
forms of cancer.

**Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics**

The terms "pharmacogenetics" and "pharmacogenomics" are often used
interchangeably in describing the intersection of pharmacology (the study of
drugs, or pharmaceuticals) and genetic variability in determining an
individual's response to particular drugs. The terms may be distinguished in
the following way.

Pharmacogenetics is the field of study dealing with the variability of
responses to medications due to variation in single genes. Pharmacogenetics
takes into account a person's genetic information regarding specific drug
receptors and how drugs are transported and metabolized by the body. The goal
of pharmacogenetics is to create an individualized drug therapy that allows
for the best choice and dose of drugs. One example is the breast cancer drug
trastuzumab (Herceptin). This therapy works only for women whose tumors have a
particular genetic profile that leads to overproduction of a protein called
HER2. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/))

Pharmacogenomics is similar to pharmacogenetics, except that it typically
involves the search for variations in multiple genes that are associated with
variability in drug response. Since pharmacogenomics is one of the large-scale
"omic" technologies, it can examine the entirety of the genome, rather than
just single genes. Pharmacogenomic studies may also examine genetic variation
among large groups of people (populations), for example, in order to see how
different drugs might affect different racial or ethnic groups.

Pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic studies are leading to drugs that can be
tailor-made for individuals, and adapted to each person's particular genetic
makeup. Although a person's environment, diet, age, lifestyle, and state of
health can also influence that person's response to medicines, understanding
an individual's genetic makeup is key to creating personalized drugs that work
better and have fewer side effects than the one-size-fits-all drugs that are
common today. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/)). For example, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) recommends genetic testing before giving the chemotherapy
drug mercaptopurine (Purinethol) to patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia. Some people have a genetic variant that interferes with their
ability to process this drug. This processing problem can cause severe side
effects, unless the standard dose is adjusted according to the patient's
genetic makeup. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions about
Pharmacogenomics](https://www.genome.gov/27530645/faq-about-
pharmacogenomics/)).

**Stem Cell Therapy**

Stem cells have two important characteristics. First, stem cells are
unspecialized cells that can develop into various specialized body cells.
Second, stem cells are able to stay in their unspecialized state and make
copies of themselves. Embryonic stem cells come from the embryo at a very
early stage in development (the blastocyst staqe). The stem cells in the
blastocyst go on to develop all of the cells in the complete organism. Adult
stem cells come from more fully developed tissues, like umbilical cord blood
in newborns, circulating blood, bone marrow or skin.

Medical researchers are investigating the use of stem cells to repair or
replace damaged body tissues, similar to whole organ transplants. Embryonic
stem cells from the blastocyst have the ability to develop into every type of
tissue (skin, liver, kidney, blood, etc.) found in an adult human. Adult stem
cells are more limited in their potential (for example, stem cells from liver
may only develop into more liver cells). In organ transplants, when tissues
from a donor are placed into the body of a patient, there is the possibility
that the patient's immune system may react and reject the donated tissue as
"foreign." However, by using stem cells, there may be less risk of this immune
rejection, and the therapy may be more successful.

Stem cells have been used in experiments to form cells of the bone marrow,
heart, blood vessels, and muscle. Since the 1990's, umbilical cord blood stem
cells have been used to treat heart and other physical problems in children
who have rare metabolic conditions, or to treat children with certain anemias
and leukemias. For example, one of the treatment options for [childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia](http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/child
ALL/Patient/page1) [cancer.gov] is stem cell transplantation therapy.

There has been much debate nationally about the use of embryonic stem cells,
especially about the creation of human embryos for use in experiments. In
1995, Congress enacted a ban on federal financing for research using human
embryos. However, these restrictions have not stopped researchers in the
United States and elsewhere from using private funding to create new embryonic
cell lines and undertaking research with them. The embryos for such research
are typically obtained from embryos that develop from eggs that have been
fertilized _in vitro_ \- as in an _in vitro_ fertilization clinic - and then
donated for research purposes with informed consent of the donors. In 2009,
some of the barriers to federal financing of responsible and scientifically
worthy human stem cell research were lifted.

**Cloning**

Cloning can refer to genes, cells, or whole organisms. In the case of a cell,
a clone refers to any genetically identical cell in a population that comes
from a single, common ancestor. For example, when a single bacterial cell
copies its DNA and divides thousands of times, all of the cells that are
formed will contain the same DNA and will be clones of the common ancestor
bacterial cell. Gene cloning involves manipulations to make multiple identical
copies of a single gene from the same ancestor gene. Cloning an organism means
making a genetically identical copy of all of the cells, tissues, and organs
that make up the organism. There are two major types of cloning that may
relate to humans or other animals: therapeutic cloning and reproductive
cloning.

Therapeutic cloning involves growing cloned cells or tissues from an
individual, such as new liver tissue for a patient with a liver disease. Such
cloning attempts typically involve the use of stem cells. The nucleus will be
taken from a patient's body cell, such as a liver cell, and inserted into an
egg that has had its nucleus removed. This will ultimately produce a
blastocyst whose stem cells could then be used to create new tissue that is
genetically identical to that of the patient.

Reproductive cloning is a related process used to generate an entire animal
that has the same nuclear DNA as another currently or previously existing
animal. The first cloned animals were frogs. Dolly, the famous sheep, is
another example of cloning. The success rates of reproductive animal cloning,
however, have been very low. In 2005, South Korean researchers claimed to have
produced human embryonic stem cell lines by cloning genetic material from
patients. However, this data was later reported to have been falsified.

  * What are some of the new genetic and genomic techniques and technologies?

**Proteomics**

The suffix "-ome" comes from the Greek for _all_, _every_, or _complete_. It
was originally used in "genome," which refers to all the genes in a person or
other organism. Due to the success of large-scale biology projects such as the
sequencing of the human genome, the suffix "-ome" is now being used in other
research contexts. Proteomics is an example. The DNA sequence of genes carries
the instructions, or code, for building proteins. This DNA is transcribed into
a related molecule, RNA, which is then translated into proteins. Proteomics,
therefore, is a similar large-scale analysis of all the proteins in an
organism, tissue type, or cell (called the proteome). Proteomics can be used
to reveal specific, abnormal proteins that lead to diseases, such as certain
forms of cancer.

**Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics**

The terms "pharmacogenetics" and "pharmacogenomics" are often used
interchangeably in describing the intersection of pharmacology (the study of
drugs, or pharmaceuticals) and genetic variability in determining an
individual's response to particular drugs. The terms may be distinguished in
the following way.

Pharmacogenetics is the field of study dealing with the variability of
responses to medications due to variation in single genes. Pharmacogenetics
takes into account a person's genetic information regarding specific drug
receptors and how drugs are transported and metabolized by the body. The goal
of pharmacogenetics is to create an individualized drug therapy that allows
for the best choice and dose of drugs. One example is the breast cancer drug
trastuzumab (Herceptin). This therapy works only for women whose tumors have a
particular genetic profile that leads to overproduction of a protein called
HER2. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/))

Pharmacogenomics is similar to pharmacogenetics, except that it typically
involves the search for variations in multiple genes that are associated with
variability in drug response. Since pharmacogenomics is one of the large-scale
"omic" technologies, it can examine the entirety of the genome, rather than
just single genes. Pharmacogenomic studies may also examine genetic variation
among large groups of people (populations), for example, in order to see how
different drugs might affect different racial or ethnic groups.

Pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic studies are leading to drugs that can be
tailor-made for individuals, and adapted to each person's particular genetic
makeup. Although a person's environment, diet, age, lifestyle, and state of
health can also influence that person's response to medicines, understanding
an individual's genetic makeup is key to creating personalized drugs that work
better and have fewer side effects than the one-size-fits-all drugs that are
common today. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/)). For example, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) recommends genetic testing before giving the chemotherapy
drug mercaptopurine (Purinethol) to patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia. Some people have a genetic variant that interferes with their
ability to process this drug. This processing problem can cause severe side
effects, unless the standard dose is adjusted according to the patient's
genetic makeup. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions about
Pharmacogenomics](https://www.genome.gov/27530645/faq-about-
pharmacogenomics/)).

**Stem Cell Therapy**

Stem cells have two important characteristics. First, stem cells are
unspecialized cells that can develop into various specialized body cells.
Second, stem cells are able to stay in their unspecialized state and make
copies of themselves. Embryonic stem cells come from the embryo at a very
early stage in development (the blastocyst staqe). The stem cells in the
blastocyst go on to develop all of the cells in the complete organism. Adult
stem cells come from more fully developed tissues, like umbilical cord blood
in newborns, circulating blood, bone marrow or skin.

Medical researchers are investigating the use of stem cells to repair or
replace damaged body tissues, similar to whole organ transplants. Embryonic
stem cells from the blastocyst have the ability to develop into every type of
tissue (skin, liver, kidney, blood, etc.) found in an adult human. Adult stem
cells are more limited in their potential (for example, stem cells from liver
may only develop into more liver cells). In organ transplants, when tissues
from a donor are placed into the body of a patient, there is the possibility
that the patient's immune system may react and reject the donated tissue as
"foreign." However, by using stem cells, there may be less risk of this immune
rejection, and the therapy may be more successful.

Stem cells have been used in experiments to form cells of the bone marrow,
heart, blood vessels, and muscle. Since the 1990's, umbilical cord blood stem
cells have been used to treat heart and other physical problems in children
who have rare metabolic conditions, or to treat children with certain anemias
and leukemias. For example, one of the treatment options for [childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia](http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/child
ALL/Patient/page1) [cancer.gov] is stem cell transplantation therapy.

There has been much debate nationally about the use of embryonic stem cells,
especially about the creation of human embryos for use in experiments. In
1995, Congress enacted a ban on federal financing for research using human
embryos. However, these restrictions have not stopped researchers in the
United States and elsewhere from using private funding to create new embryonic
cell lines and undertaking research with them. The embryos for such research
are typically obtained from embryos that develop from eggs that have been
fertilized _in vitro_ \- as in an _in vitro_ fertilization clinic - and then
donated for research purposes with informed consent of the donors. In 2009,
some of the barriers to federal financing of responsible and scientifically
worthy human stem cell research were lifted.

**Cloning**

Cloning can refer to genes, cells, or whole organisms. In the case of a cell,
a clone refers to any genetically identical cell in a population that comes
from a single, common ancestor. For example, when a single bacterial cell
copies its DNA and divides thousands of times, all of the cells that are
formed will contain the same DNA and will be clones of the common ancestor
bacterial cell. Gene cloning involves manipulations to make multiple identical
copies of a single gene from the same ancestor gene. Cloning an organism means
making a genetically identical copy of all of the cells, tissues, and organs
that make up the organism. There are two major types of cloning that may
relate to humans or other animals: therapeutic cloning and reproductive
cloning.

Therapeutic cloning involves growing cloned cells or tissues from an
individual, such as new liver tissue for a patient with a liver disease. Such
cloning attempts typically involve the use of stem cells. The nucleus will be
taken from a patient's body cell, such as a liver cell, and inserted into an
egg that has had its nucleus removed. This will ultimately produce a
blastocyst whose stem cells could then be used to create new tissue that is
genetically identical to that of the patient.

Reproductive cloning is a related process used to generate an entire animal
that has the same nuclear DNA as another currently or previously existing
animal. The first cloned animals were frogs. Dolly, the famous sheep, is
another example of cloning. The success rates of reproductive animal cloning,
however, have been very low. In 2005, South Korean researchers claimed to have
produced human embryonic stem cell lines by cloning genetic material from
patients. However, this data was later reported to have been falsified.

Last updated: September 7, 2018

## Get Updates

Enter your email address to receive updates about the latest advances in
genomics research.

Email Address

I'm interested in:

News & Events

The Genomics Landscape

National DNA Day

2020 Strategic Planning Initiative

## Social Media Stream

[Follow Us](/social-media)

[ ![NIH logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NIH_mark_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.nih.gov/)

[ ![DHHS logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/DHHS_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.hhs.gov/)

[ ![USA Gov logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/US-GSA-USAGov-
Logo_white.svg) ](https://www.usa.gov/)

## Footer Links

  * [Contact](/about-nhgri/Contact)
  * [Accessibility](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Accessibility)
  * [Site Map](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Site-Map)
  * [Staff Search](/staff)
  * [FOIA](https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-liaison/freedom-information-act-office)
  * [Privacy](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Privacy)
  * [Copyright](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Copyright)

Skip to main content

**COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.** [CDC health information](https://www.coronavirus.gov) [NIH research information](https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus)

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

[En Espa√±ol](https://www.genome.gov/es/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Breve-guia-
de-genomica)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. A Brief Guide to Genomics

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Open Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7
l6QAAAAilBMVEUAAAD////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////2N2iNAAAALXRSTlMAJuVMCaUE9M66Dtl6/Pn
v65RG6d/Sn4J0OznHwrKqm5CJgWRbVi0V6sCKVR5yLz5NAAABEElEQVR4AY2P6XKDMAyExWEOMCRAw
0HuI02P+v1fr1IN2HJmMt1fu/pmbQkmZXexaUp/ex7gWWG/UrPyb5e+vylbh5DROlZcycPuappcbsH
12CjSLjL//r2c11OSJcXTgiXFz2zJI21ZePNFlPLMXqXAiZjCnco12GpxEk/bC9oKmDxqBNpv0HbAl
eNMartGe3PwHmeVtqV+iEmY3ejqq4NT096iPXIa0Ye99l9om5DhQKFG7QfykpUTnPgRmMvK0cJnKnT
sqZVZ/kL5I1vygXLReuSjIFEkn5JWqCcq37cp7ezyx065Yjw6FRZY+y4HT8Rzq8u8Zw5hICtR9QPd6
3Kuf/MUXvIYXnLe5jyN059fYMIyqmUcc+gAAAAASUVORK5CYII=) ![Open Navigation](data:i
mage/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeBAMAAADJHrORAAAAElBMVEUAAAD///
////////////////8+Uq06AAAABXRSTlMAiHfvO9PV4LcAAAAoSURBVBjTYyAEnJSQgQqDaSgyCGYI
RQXofAz1joLIQISQ9aPuo8x9ABWaRO+IIVJ/AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC) ![Close Navigation](data
:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD/
//////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTlMAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc4
0AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnx
bCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzLZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEyt
mP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

![Close Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM
7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD///////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTl
MAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc40AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0
K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnxbCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzL
ZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEytmP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

[En Espa√±ol](https://www.genome.gov/es/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Breve-guia-
de-genomica)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. A Brief Guide to Genomics

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI_grey_teal.svg)

# A Brief Guide to Genomics

Genomics is the study of all of a person's genes (the genome), including
interactions of those genes with each other and with the person's environment.

## What is DNA?

Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the chemical compound that contains the
instructions needed to develop and direct the activities of nearly all living
organisms. DNA molecules are made of two twisting, paired strands, often
referred to as a double helix

Each DNA strand is made of four chemical units, called nucleotide bases, which
comprise the genetic "alphabet." The bases are adenine (A), thymine (T),
guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Bases on opposite strands pair specifically: an
A always pairs with a T; a C always pairs with a G. The order of the As, Ts,
Cs and Gs determines the meaning of the information encoded in that part of
the DNA molecule just as the order of letters determines the meaning of a
word.

  * What is DNA? 

Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the chemical compound that contains the
instructions needed to develop and direct the activities of nearly all living
organisms. DNA molecules are made of two twisting, paired strands, often
referred to as a double helix

Each DNA strand is made of four chemical units, called nucleotide bases, which
comprise the genetic "alphabet." The bases are adenine (A), thymine (T),
guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Bases on opposite strands pair specifically: an
A always pairs with a T; a C always pairs with a G. The order of the As, Ts,
Cs and Gs determines the meaning of the information encoded in that part of
the DNA molecule just as the order of letters determines the meaning of a
word.

## What is a genome?

An organism's complete set of DNA is called its genome. Virtually every single
cell in the body contains a complete copy of the approximately 3 billion DNA
base pairs, or letters, that make up the human genome.

With its four-letter language, DNA contains the information needed to build
the entire human body. A gene traditionally refers to the unit of DNA that
carries the instructions for making a specific protein or set of proteins.
Each of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 genes in the human genome codes for an
average of three proteins.

Located on 23 pairs of chromosomes packed into the nucleus of a human cell,
genes direct the production of proteins with the assistance of enzymes and
messenger molecules. Specifically, an enzyme copies the information in a
gene's DNA into a molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA). The mRNA
travels out of the nucleus and into the cell's cytoplasm, where the mRNA is
read by a tiny molecular machine called a ribosome, and the information is
used to link together small molecules called amino acids in the right order to
form a specific protein.

Proteins make up body structures like organs and tissue, as well as control
chemical reactions and carry signals between cells. If a cell's DNA is
mutated, an abnormal protein may be produced, which can disrupt the body's
usual processes and lead to a disease such as cancer.



![A Brief Guide to Genomics](/sites/default/files/inline-images
/Guide_Genomics_Fact-sheet2020.jpg)

  * What is a genome?

An organism's complete set of DNA is called its genome. Virtually every single
cell in the body contains a complete copy of the approximately 3 billion DNA
base pairs, or letters, that make up the human genome.

With its four-letter language, DNA contains the information needed to build
the entire human body. A gene traditionally refers to the unit of DNA that
carries the instructions for making a specific protein or set of proteins.
Each of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 genes in the human genome codes for an
average of three proteins.

Located on 23 pairs of chromosomes packed into the nucleus of a human cell,
genes direct the production of proteins with the assistance of enzymes and
messenger molecules. Specifically, an enzyme copies the information in a
gene's DNA into a molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA). The mRNA
travels out of the nucleus and into the cell's cytoplasm, where the mRNA is
read by a tiny molecular machine called a ribosome, and the information is
used to link together small molecules called amino acids in the right order to
form a specific protein.

Proteins make up body structures like organs and tissue, as well as control
chemical reactions and carry signals between cells. If a cell's DNA is
mutated, an abnormal protein may be produced, which can disrupt the body's
usual processes and lead to a disease such as cancer.



![A Brief Guide to Genomics](/sites/default/files/inline-images
/Guide_Genomics_Fact-sheet2020.jpg)

## What is DNA sequencing?

Sequencing simply means determining the exact order of the bases in a strand
of DNA. Because bases exist as pairs, and the identity of one of the bases in
the pair determines the other member of the pair, researchers do not have to
report both bases of the pair.

In the most common type of sequencing used today, called sequencing by
synthesis, DNA polymerase (the enzyme in cells that synthesizes DNA) is used
to generate a new strand of DNA from a strand of interest. In the sequencing
reaction, the enzyme incorporates into the new DNA strand individual
nucleotides that have been chemically tagged with a fluorescent label. As this
happens, the nucleotide is excited by a light source, and a fluorescent signal
is emitted and detected. The signal is different depending on which of the
four nucleotides was incorporated. This method can generate 'reads' of 125
nucleotides in a row and billions of reads at a time.

To assemble the sequence of all the bases in a large piece of DNA such as a
gene, researchers need to read the sequence of overlapping segments. This
allows the longer sequence to be assembled from shorter pieces, somewhat like
putting together a linear jigsaw puzzle. In this process, each base has to be
read not just once, but at least several times in the overlapping segments to
ensure accuracy.

Researchers can use DNA sequencing to search for genetic variations and/or
mutations that may play a role in the development or progression of a disease.
The disease-causing change may be as small as the substitution, deletion, or
addition of a single base pair or as large as a deletion of thousands of
bases.

  * What is DNA sequencing?

Sequencing simply means determining the exact order of the bases in a strand
of DNA. Because bases exist as pairs, and the identity of one of the bases in
the pair determines the other member of the pair, researchers do not have to
report both bases of the pair.

In the most common type of sequencing used today, called sequencing by
synthesis, DNA polymerase (the enzyme in cells that synthesizes DNA) is used
to generate a new strand of DNA from a strand of interest. In the sequencing
reaction, the enzyme incorporates into the new DNA strand individual
nucleotides that have been chemically tagged with a fluorescent label. As this
happens, the nucleotide is excited by a light source, and a fluorescent signal
is emitted and detected. The signal is different depending on which of the
four nucleotides was incorporated. This method can generate 'reads' of 125
nucleotides in a row and billions of reads at a time.

To assemble the sequence of all the bases in a large piece of DNA such as a
gene, researchers need to read the sequence of overlapping segments. This
allows the longer sequence to be assembled from shorter pieces, somewhat like
putting together a linear jigsaw puzzle. In this process, each base has to be
read not just once, but at least several times in the overlapping segments to
ensure accuracy.

Researchers can use DNA sequencing to search for genetic variations and/or
mutations that may play a role in the development or progression of a disease.
The disease-causing change may be as small as the substitution, deletion, or
addition of a single base pair or as large as a deletion of thousands of
bases.

## What is the Human Genome Project?

The Human Genome Project, which was led at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) by the National Human Genome Research Institute, produced a very high-
quality version of the human genome sequence that is freely available in
public databases. That international project was successfully completed in
April 2003, under budget and more than two years ahead of schedule.

The sequence is not that of one person, but is a composite derived from
several individuals. Therefore, it is a "representative" or generic sequence.
To ensure anonymity of the DNA donors, more blood samples (nearly 100) were
collected from volunteers than were used, and no names were attached to the
samples that were analyzed. Thus, not even the donors knew whether their
samples were actually used.

The Human Genome Project was designed to generate a resource that could be
used for a broad range of biomedical studies. One such use is to look for the
genetic variations that increase risk of specific diseases, such as cancer, or
to look for the type of genetic mutations frequently seen in cancerous cells.
More research can then be done to fully understand how the genome functions
and to discover the genetic basis for health and disease.

  * What is the Human Genome Project?

The Human Genome Project, which was led at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) by the National Human Genome Research Institute, produced a very high-
quality version of the human genome sequence that is freely available in
public databases. That international project was successfully completed in
April 2003, under budget and more than two years ahead of schedule.

The sequence is not that of one person, but is a composite derived from
several individuals. Therefore, it is a "representative" or generic sequence.
To ensure anonymity of the DNA donors, more blood samples (nearly 100) were
collected from volunteers than were used, and no names were attached to the
samples that were analyzed. Thus, not even the donors knew whether their
samples were actually used.

The Human Genome Project was designed to generate a resource that could be
used for a broad range of biomedical studies. One such use is to look for the
genetic variations that increase risk of specific diseases, such as cancer, or
to look for the type of genetic mutations frequently seen in cancerous cells.
More research can then be done to fully understand how the genome functions
and to discover the genetic basis for health and disease.

## What are the implications for medical science?

Virtually every human ailment has some basis in our genes. Until recently,
doctors were able to take the study of genes, or genetics, into consideration
only in cases of birth defects and a limited set of other diseases. These were
conditions, such as sickle cell anemia, which have very simple, predictable
inheritance patterns because each is caused by a change in a single gene.

With the vast trove of data about human DNA generated by the Human Genome
Project and other genomic research, scientists and clinicians have more
powerful tools to study the role that multiple genetic factors acting together
and with the environment play in much more complex diseases. These diseases,
such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease constitute the majority
of health problems in the United States. Genome-based research is already
enabling medical researchers to develop improved diagnostics, more effective
therapeutic strategies, evidence-based approaches for demonstrating clinical
efficacy, and better decision-making tools for patients and providers.
Ultimately, it appears inevitable that treatments will be tailored to a
patient's particular genomic makeup. Thus, the role of genetics in health care
is starting to change profoundly and the first examples of the era of genomic
medicine are upon us.

It is important to realize, however, that it often takes considerable time,
effort, and funding to move discoveries from the scientific laboratory into
the medical clinic. Most new drugs based on genome-based research are
estimated to be at least 10 to 15 years away, though recent genome-driven
efforts in lipid-lowering therapy have considerably shortened that interval.
According to biotechnology experts, it usually takes more than a decade for a
company to conduct the kinds of clinical studies needed to receive approval
from the Food and Drug Administration.

Screening and diagnostic tests, however, are here. Rapid progress is also
being made in the emerging field of pharmacogenomics, which involves using
information about a patient's genetic make-up to better tailor drug therapy to
their individual needs.

Clearly, genetics remains just one of several factors that contribute to
people's risk of developing most common diseases. Diet, lifestyle, and
environmental exposures also come into play for many conditions, including
many types of cancer. Still, a deeper understanding of genetics will shed
light on more than just hereditary risks by revealing the basic components of
cells and, ultimately, explaining how all the various elements work together
to affect the human body in both health and disease.

  * What are the implications for medical science?

Virtually every human ailment has some basis in our genes. Until recently,
doctors were able to take the study of genes, or genetics, into consideration
only in cases of birth defects and a limited set of other diseases. These were
conditions, such as sickle cell anemia, which have very simple, predictable
inheritance patterns because each is caused by a change in a single gene.

With the vast trove of data about human DNA generated by the Human Genome
Project and other genomic research, scientists and clinicians have more
powerful tools to study the role that multiple genetic factors acting together
and with the environment play in much more complex diseases. These diseases,
such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease constitute the majority
of health problems in the United States. Genome-based research is already
enabling medical researchers to develop improved diagnostics, more effective
therapeutic strategies, evidence-based approaches for demonstrating clinical
efficacy, and better decision-making tools for patients and providers.
Ultimately, it appears inevitable that treatments will be tailored to a
patient's particular genomic makeup. Thus, the role of genetics in health care
is starting to change profoundly and the first examples of the era of genomic
medicine are upon us.

It is important to realize, however, that it often takes considerable time,
effort, and funding to move discoveries from the scientific laboratory into
the medical clinic. Most new drugs based on genome-based research are
estimated to be at least 10 to 15 years away, though recent genome-driven
efforts in lipid-lowering therapy have considerably shortened that interval.
According to biotechnology experts, it usually takes more than a decade for a
company to conduct the kinds of clinical studies needed to receive approval
from the Food and Drug Administration.

Screening and diagnostic tests, however, are here. Rapid progress is also
being made in the emerging field of pharmacogenomics, which involves using
information about a patient's genetic make-up to better tailor drug therapy to
their individual needs.

Clearly, genetics remains just one of several factors that contribute to
people's risk of developing most common diseases. Diet, lifestyle, and
environmental exposures also come into play for many conditions, including
many types of cancer. Still, a deeper understanding of genetics will shed
light on more than just hereditary risks by revealing the basic components of
cells and, ultimately, explaining how all the various elements work together
to affect the human body in both health and disease.

## Related Contents

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Current Slide Current Slide Current Slide

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Current Slide Current Slide

[

![What is the Human Genome Project? |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.1_DNA_testing.jpg)

About Genomics

What is the Human Genome Project?

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/What)

[

![DNA](/sites/default/files/media/images/2020-08/DNA_dynamic2020-01.jpg)

Fact Sheets

Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Fact Sheet

](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Deoxyribonucleic-Acid-
Fact-Sheet)

[

![The Human Genome Project FAQ |
NHGRI](/sites/default/files/1.4.3_Frequently_asked_questions.jpg)

About Genomics

Human Genome Project FAQ

](https://www.genome.gov/human-genome-project/Completion-FAQ)

Last updated: August 15, 2020

## Get Updates

Enter your email address to receive updates about the latest advances in
genomics research.

Email Address

I'm interested in:

News & Events

The Genomics Landscape

National DNA Day

2020 Strategic Planning Initiative

## Social Media Stream

[Follow Us](/social-media)

[ ![NIH logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NIH_mark_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.nih.gov/)

[ ![DHHS logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/DHHS_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.hhs.gov/)

[ ![USA Gov logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/US-GSA-USAGov-
Logo_white.svg) ](https://www.usa.gov/)

## Footer Links

  * [Contact](/about-nhgri/Contact)
  * [Accessibility](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Accessibility)
  * [Site Map](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Site-Map)
  * [Staff Search](/staff)
  * [FOIA](https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-liaison/freedom-information-act-office)
  * [Privacy](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Privacy)
  * [Copyright](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Copyright)

  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [MGM-Affiliated Graduate Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/)
      * [Immunology & Microbiology Journal Club (GMS 6921)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/immunology-microbiology-journal-club/)
      * [MGM Research Conference (GMS 7191)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/mgm-research-conference-gms-7191/)
    * [Training Program in Regenerative Medicine (NIH T32)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/)
      * [Regenerative Medicine Trainees](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/t32-trainees/)
    * [Affiliated Centers:](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/affiliated-centers/)
      * [Center for NeuroGenetics](http://neurogenetics.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Powell Gene Therapy Center](http://www.gtc.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [UF Genetics Institute](http://ufgi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [The Center of Excellence for Regenerative Health Biotechnology](http://www.cerhb.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://researchaffairs.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Postdoctoral Affairs](http://postdoc.aa.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/)
      * [Financial Support](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/admissions/financial-support/#new_tab)
        * [Minority support](http://graduateschool.ufl.edu/prospective-students/funding/minority/#new_tab)
      * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://idp.med.ufl.edu#new_tab)
      * [MGM MS Programs in the College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/)
        * [Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
        * [Masters in Medical Science](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/masters-in-medical-science/)
    * [Graduate Curriculum](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/curriculum/#new_tab)
    * [Medical Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/medical-courses/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
    * [Chair's office](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/)
      * [Dr. Henry V. Baker](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/dr-henry-v-baker/)
      * [Steve Howard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/steve-howard/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/kristyn-minkoff/)
      * [Deborah Burgess](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/deborah-burgess/)
      * [Tara McRee](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/taramcree/)
    * [Fiscal Services](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/)
      * [Julie Dillard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/julie-dillard/)
    * [GRANTS - CGRC](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/)
      * [Connie Philebaum](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/connie-philebaum/)
    * [Accounting](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/)
      * [Michele Ramsey](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/michele-ramsey/)
    * [Graduate Programs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/kristyn-minkoff/)
    * [MGM building locations and addresses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/)
      * [Academic Research Building](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/academic-research-building/)
      * [Cancer and Genetics Research Center](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/cancer-and-genetics-research-center/)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/emerging-pathogens-institute/)
    * [College of Medicine Events](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/college-of-medicine-events/)
    * [UF Travel and Reimbursement Guides](https://www.fa.ufl.edu/directives/helpful-handouts/#new_tab)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
    * [Faculty Home Pages](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Baker, Henry V](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Berns, Kenneth](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/kenneth-berns/)
      * [Bloom, David C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/david-c-bloom-p-h-d/)
      * [Cohn, Martin J](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/martin-j-cohn-ph-d/)
      * [Condit, Richard C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/condit-richard-c/)
      * [Gulig, Paul A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/gulig-paul-a/)
      * [Harfe, Brian](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/harfe-brian/)
      * [Jin, Shouguang](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/jin-shouguang/)
      * [Karst, Stephanie](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/karst-stephanie/)
      * [Lewin, Alfred S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/lewin-alfred-s/)
      * [Ma, Zhe](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ma-zhe/)
      * [McIntyre, Lauren](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/mcintyre-lauren/)
      * [Muzyczka, Nicholas](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/muzyczka-nicolas/)
      * [Ranum, Laura](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ranum-laura/)
      * [Renne, Rolf](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/renne-rolf/)
      * [Resnick, James](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/resnick-james/)
      * [Scott, Edward W.](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/scott-edward-w/)
      * [Swanson, Maurice S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/swanson-maurice-s/)
      * [Tibbetts, Scott A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/tibbetts-scott-a/)
      * [Wallace, Margaret (Peggy)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wallace-margaret-peggy/)
      * [Wang, Eric](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wang-eric/)
      * [Wu, Lizi](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wu-lizi/)
      * [Zhou, Lei](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/zhou-lei/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [Faculty Contact Information](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Research Faculty](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Research-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Joint Faculty](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2014/09/MGMPERS-Joint-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [Contacts](http://mgm.ufl.edu/contacts/)
    * [MGM Phone / Email listing](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2013/05/MGMPERS-Email-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM PostDocs](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-PostDocs-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM Grad Students](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-GradStudents-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Webmail (MGM faculty/staff)](https://mail.ufl.edu/owa/auth/logon.aspx?replaceCurrent=1&url=https%3a%2f%2fmail.ufl.edu%2fowa#new_tab)
    * [myUFL](https://my.ufl.edu/ps/signon.html#new_tab)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * Additional Links
  * [Home](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * [Office Staffing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/?page_id=2801)
  * Connect with us
  * [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/UFHealth/)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/UFHealthScience/)
  * [Twitter](http://twitter.com/UFMedicine/)

  * [Text-only version of this website](http://assistive.usablenet.com/tt/http://mgm.ufl.edu)
  * Skip navigation
  * [Home page](/)
  * What's new
  * Search
  * [Contact Webmaster](http://webservices.ahc.ufl.edu/contact-webmaster/?website=http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
  * Website policies
  * [Disability services](http://www.ufl.edu/disability/)

![Menu](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/sb_btn.png) [ ![UF Health
Home](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/ufhealth-badge-responsive.png)
](https://ufhealth.org) ![Menu](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/search-button-responsive.png)

  * ![UF Health Home](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-content/themes/UFandShands/images/inst-home.png)
  * [Healing](https://ufhealth.org)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org)

    * [UF Health Shands Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-university-florida)
    * [UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-cancer-hospital-uf)
    * [Shands Emergency & Trauma](https://ufhealth.org/emergency-room-trauma-center)
    * [UF Health Shands Children's Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-hospital-children-uf)
    * [UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-rehab-hospital)
    * [UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospital](https://ufhealth.org/shands-vista)
    * [Shands Community Hospitals](https://ufhealth.org/locations)
    * [UF Health Physicians](https://ufhealth.org/locations)
    * [Archer Family Health Care](http://afhc.nursing.ufl.edu/)
    * [Dental Clinics](https://ufhealth.org/search/locations/dentistry)
    * [Speech & Hearing](http://slhs.phhp.ufl.edu/clinics/)
    * [Student Health Care Center](http://shcc.ufl.edu/)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/)

    * [UF Health Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [UF Health North](http://north.ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [UF Health Proton Therapy Institute](http://www.floridaproton.org/)
    * [Primary Care Locations](http://primarycare.ufhealthjax.org/)
    * [Specialty Care Centers](http://ufhealthjax.org/locations/specialty-care.aspx)
    * [Physician Directory](http://ufhealthjax.org/directory)

### [Animal Health](http://hospitals.vetmed.ufl.edu/)

    * [Small Animal Hospital](http://smallanimal.vethospital.ufl.edu/)
    * [Large Animal Hospital](http://largeanimal.vethospitals.ufl.edu/)
    * [Veterinary Laboratories](http://labs.vetmed.ufl.edu)
    * [Veterinary Pharmacy](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/veterinary-hospitals/pharmacy/)

  * [Learning](https://ufhealth.org/education)

### [UF&Shands Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/education)

    * [College of Dentistry](http://www.dental.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Medicine](http://med.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Nursing](http://www.nursing.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Pharmacy](http://pharmacy.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Public Health & Health Professions](http://phhp.ufl.edu)
    * [College of Veterinary Medicine](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/)

    * [College of Medicine](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/college-of-medicine/)
    * [College of Nursing](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/college-of-nursing/)
    * [College of Pharmacy](http://pharmacy.ufl.edu/education/doctor-of-pharmacy-degree-pharmd/entry-level-pharmd/jacksonville-campus/)

  * [Discovery](https://ufhealth.org/research)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/research)

    * [Research Studies](http://www.ctsi.ufl.edu/community/become-a-research-participant/)
    * [Genetics Institute](http://www.ufgi.ufl.edu/)
    * [Institute on Aging](http://www.aging.ufl.edu/)
    * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/)
    * [UF Diabetes Institute](http://diabetes.ufl.edu)
    * [UF Health Cancer Center](http://cancer.ufl.edu/)
    * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/)
    * [Institute for Child Health Policy](http://ichp.ufl.edu/)
    * [Clinical and Translational Science Institute](http://ctsi.ufl.edu)

### [UF Health Jacksonville](http://www.hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-
affairs/)

    * [Clinical Trials](http://hscj.ufl.edu/research/ClinicalTrials.aspx)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-affairs/)
    * [Institutional Review Board](http://hscj.ufl.edu/medicine/research-affairs/institutional-review-board)

###  [Animal Health](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/veterinary-hospitals/clinical-
trials/)

    * [Clinical Trials](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/clinical-trials/)
    * [Faculty Research Programs](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/research-programs/)
    * [Centers and Institutes](http://research.vetmed.ufl.edu/centers-institutes/)

  * [Community](https://ufhealth.org/community/)

### [UF Health at Gainesville](https://ufhealth.org/community/)

    * [Patient Programs](https://ufhealth.org/patient-programs)
    * [Volunteer](https://ufhealth.org/volunteering)
    * [Calendar](https://ufhealth.org/calendar/)
    * [News](https://ufhealth.org/news)
    * [Social Media](https://ufhealth.org/social-hub)
    * [Giving](http://giving.ufhealth.org/)

### [UF Health at Jacksonville](http://ufhealthjax.org/Community/)

    * [Community Programs](http://ufhealthjax.org/education)
    * [Volunteer](http://ufhealthjax.org/volunteer/)
    * [Support Groups](http://ufhealthjax.org/community/support-groups-and-classes.aspx)
    * [Calendar](http://ufhealthjax.org/calendar/)
    * [News](http://ufhealthjax.org/news/)
    * [Social Media](http://ufhealthjax.org/social/)
    * [Giving](http://ufhealthjax.org/giving/)

### [Animal Health](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension/)

    * [Community Programs](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension-outreach/)
    * [Veterinary Extension](http://www.vetmed.ufl.edu/extension/)
    * [Support Groups](http://smallanimal.vethospital.ufl.edu/resources/pet-loss-support/)
    * [News](http://veterinarypage.vetmed.ufl.edu/)
    * [Social Media](https://ufhealth.org/social-hub)
    * [Giving](https://www.uff.ufl.edu/onlinegiving/vetmed.asp)

  * _[visit_ University of Florida](http://ufl.edu)

### [University of Florida

## Department _of_ Molecular Genetics & Microbiology

### College _of_ Medicine

](http://mgm.ufl.edu)

  * [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/UFHealth/)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/UFHealthScience/)
  * [Twitter](http://twitter.com/UFMedicine/)

  * [Home](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)
  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)
  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)
  * [Office Staffing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/?page_id=2801)



  * [Home](/)
  * [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)

    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [MGM-Affiliated Graduate Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/)
      * [Immunology & Microbiology Journal Club (GMS 6921)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/immunology-microbiology-journal-club/)
      * [MGM Research Conference (GMS 7191)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/mgm-affiliated-graduate-courses/mgm-research-conference-gms-7191/)
    * [Training Program in Regenerative Medicine (NIH T32)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/)
      * [Regenerative Medicine Trainees](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/t32-training-program-in-regenerative-medicine/t32-trainees/)
    * [Affiliated Centers:](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/affiliated-centers/)
      * [Center for NeuroGenetics](http://neurogenetics.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Powell Gene Therapy Center](http://www.gtc.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [UF Genetics Institute](http://ufgi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [McKnight Brain Institute](http://www.mbi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://www.epi.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
      * [The Center of Excellence for Regenerative Health Biotechnology](http://www.cerhb.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Research Affairs](http://researchaffairs.med.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Office of Postdoctoral Affairs](http://postdoc.aa.ufl.edu/#new_tab)
    * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/)
      * [Financial Support](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/admissions/financial-support/#new_tab)
      * [Graduate Programs in Biomedical Sciences](http://idp.med.ufl.edu#new_tab)
      * [MGM MS Programs in the College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/)
    * [Graduate Curriculum](http://idp.med.ufl.edu/curriculum/#new_tab)
    * [Medical Courses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/medical-courses/)

  * [Administration](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/)

    * [Chair's office](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/)
      * [Dr. Henry V. Baker](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/dr-henry-v-baker/)
      * [Steve Howard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/steve-howard/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/kristyn-minkoff/)
      * [Deborah Burgess](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/deborah-burgess/)
      * [Tara McRee](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/chairs-office/taramcree/)
    * [Fiscal Services](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/)
      * [Julie Dillard](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/fiscal-services/julie-dillard/)
    * [GRANTS - CGRC](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/)
      * [Connie Philebaum](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/grants-cgrc/connie-philebaum/)
    * [Accounting](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/)
      * [Michele Ramsey](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/accounting/michele-ramsey/)
    * [Graduate Programs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/)
      * [Kristyn Minkoff](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/graduate-programs/kristyn-minkoff/)
    * [MGM building locations and addresses](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/)
      * [Academic Research Building](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/academic-research-building/)
      * [Cancer and Genetics Research Center](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/cancer-and-genetics-research-center/)
      * [Emerging Pathogens Institute](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/mgm-building-locations-and-addresses/emerging-pathogens-institute/)
    * [College of Medicine Events](http://mgm.ufl.edu/administration/college-of-medicine-events/)
    * [UF Travel and Reimbursement Guides](https://www.fa.ufl.edu/directives/helpful-handouts/#new_tab)

  * [Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/)

    * [Faculty Home Pages](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Baker, Henry V](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/baker-henry-v-ph-d/)
      * [Berns, Kenneth](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/kenneth-berns/)
      * [Bloom, David C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/david-c-bloom-p-h-d/)
      * [Cohn, Martin J](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/martin-j-cohn-ph-d/)
      * [Condit, Richard C](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/condit-richard-c/)
      * [Gulig, Paul A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/gulig-paul-a/)
      * [Harfe, Brian](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/harfe-brian/)
      * [Jin, Shouguang](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/jin-shouguang/)
      * [Karst, Stephanie](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/karst-stephanie/)
      * [Lewin, Alfred S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/lewin-alfred-s/)
      * [Ma, Zhe](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ma-zhe/)
      * [McIntyre, Lauren](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/mcintyre-lauren/)
      * [Muzyczka, Nicholas](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/muzyczka-nicolas/)
      * [Ranum, Laura](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/ranum-laura/)
      * [Renne, Rolf](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/renne-rolf/)
      * [Resnick, James](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/resnick-james/)
      * [Scott, Edward W.](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/scott-edward-w/)
      * [Swanson, Maurice S](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/swanson-maurice-s/)
      * [Tibbetts, Scott A](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/tibbetts-scott-a/)
      * [Wallace, Margaret (Peggy)](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wallace-margaret-peggy/)
      * [Wang, Eric](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wang-eric/)
      * [Wu, Lizi](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/wu-lizi/)
      * [Zhou, Lei](http://mgm.ufl.edu/faculty/faculty-home-pages/zhou-lei/)
    * [MGM Graduate Faculty accepting students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
    * [Faculty Contact Information](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Research Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-Research-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Joint Faculty](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2014/09/MGMPERS-Joint-Faculty-report.pdf#new_tab)

  * [Grad Openings](http://mgm.ufl.edu/graduate-student-opportunities/)
  * [Research Landscapes](http://mgm.ufl.edu/uf-research-landscapes/)
  * [Contacts](http://mgm.ufl.edu/contacts/)

    * [MGM Phone / Email listing](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2013/05/MGMPERS-Email-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM PostDocs](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-PostDocs-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [MGM Grad Students](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2012/06/MGMPERS-GradStudents-report.pdf#new_tab)
    * [Webmail (MGM faculty/staff)](https://mail.ufl.edu/owa/auth/logon.aspx?replaceCurrent=1&url=https%3a%2f%2fmail.ufl.edu%2fowa#new_tab)
    * [myUFL](https://my.ufl.edu/ps/signon.html#new_tab)

  * [COVID-19](http://mgm.ufl.edu/covid-19-information/)

[Home](http://mgm.ufl.edu) [Academics](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/)
[Graduate Programs in Biomedical
Sciences](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/) [MGM MS Programs in the
College of Medicine](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-
programs/) **Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology**

# Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology



  * [Admissions Requirements](http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/admission-requirements/)
  * [Masters of Science in Translational Biotechnology Handbook](http://mgm.ufl.edu/files/2014/07/Masters-of-Science-in-Translational-Biotechnology-Handbook.pdf)



The Science Master‚Äôs Program in Translational Biotechnology is a two-year
thesis program that is interdisciplinary (biosciences and business), is
research intensive, has deep industry involvement, and includes a formal
internship at a company. Students will graduate with a major (Master of
Science in Medical Sciences) and a¬†grad Minor in Entrepreneurship limited to
GEB, ENT and FIN courses . The Masters of Science Program in Translational
Biotechnology has the support of the Provost, the Vice President for Research,
and Deans of the Colleges of Medicine and Business Administration.

The Program is focused on applied and translational research. Translational
Biotechnology includes drug/biologics/device product development,
manufacturing process development, assay development, toxicology studies,
quality systems (quality control and quality assurance), clinical trial
support, and regulatory compliance. These activities are essential for testing
new drugs/biologics/devices in humans and their subsequent commercialization.
Translational Biotechnology activities are foundational for companies, and are
increasingly gaining importance in the academic setting where new technologies
are being tested in humans prior to entering the commercial sector. Courses
incorporated into this unique Program encompass biotechnology science together
with regulatory compliance and best business practices. Graduate courses in
product development, regulatory compliance (cGMPs/GTPs/GLPs/GCPs), quality
systems (Quality control and Quality Assurance), process development,
analytical product testing, and biomanufacturing are essential topics for
creating scientists capable of sustaining translational research and
commercialization. Product development of biotechnological or biomedical
products including biopharmaceuticals; diagnostic test materials; enzymes,
antibodies, and other protein products; transgenic plants and animals; tissue
and cellular products, and biomedical implants and devices requires that
scientists have the knowledge to carefully complete procedures in compliance
with foreign and domestic regulations. Other features of the program are the
infusion of personal and professional skills (communication, documentation,
teamwork, interviewing, work ethic, etc), ethics and responsible conduct of
research, and international perspectives.

Deadline for applications is March 31 of the current year fall
admission.Applicants must meet the minimum requirements for the University of
Florida Graduate School: GPA 3.0 and a score on the Graduate Record Exam (GRE)
of 1000 Combined verbal and quantitative for the old scale, and a minimum
score of 300 for the new scale. Note that for students accepted into the
Masters the average GPA is 3.5, GRE is 310 (new) or 1220 (old). The program
requirements 3 letters of recommendation, a statement of purpose and
‚Äúofficial‚Äù transcripts.

#### Education and training

A foundation of the Program is a high-quality research project under the
direction of a skilled mentor, with supervision by a committee composed of
members of the University‚Äôs Graduate Research Faculty. Specialization may be
in any of the fields of research being pursued in the College of Medicine or
local biotechnology company.¬† During the first year of the program, students
will enroll in lecture courses and seminar course, and will begin working in a
mentor‚Äôs laboratory. The content of the lecture courses is intended to address
a need for a strong foundation in advanced level biology and chemistry that is
applied to biotechnology and biomedical product development. Courses are
available that bridge basic life sciences and applied research, and these have
been brought together with courses in business. Both the seminar series and
the lecture courses provide preparation for Master‚Äôs research which should be
well underway by the end of the second semester. The second year of graduate
study for the student is devoted to finishing the required courses and doing
research. Students may also enroll in additional courses, according to their
interests and backgrounds. Following the four semesters of coursework and
research, the students will be placed into internships companies not limited
to Flordia. Students will work together with steering committee members to
review available companies and associated projects, and a match will be made.

#### Degree Requirements:

Completion of the degree will require a total of 48 credit hours with 36
credit hours comprising biomedical coursework, laboratory research, and
internship for the major and 6 hours of business coursework for the minor.
Students will chose from several courses and course modules available at the
COM within the scope of the Program (student course choices will be reviewed
by the mentor, program coordinator, and program Director), and for the
business courses, students choose six credits from several options. These
courses are taught in seven week blocks. The courses include: financial
accounting, finance, economics, entrepreneurship, law, marketing, management,
and operations. An example of a program of study is shown in the table below,
and is not limited to the courses listed.

**Example Curriculum (48 total credits).**

**FALL YEAR 1 (9 cr)**

**SPRING YEAR 1 (9 cr)**

**SUMMER YEAR 1 (6 cr)**

GMS 6003 Res/Prof Devel¬† (1)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 7003 Responsible Conduct (1)

GEB 5215 professional Comm(2)

GMS 6506 Bio Drug Devel (1)

GMS 6905 Research (1)

¬†GMS 5905 Writing (1)

GMS 6905 Research (4)

FIN 6427 Measure/Manag Value (2)

ENT 6946 Entrepre Consult Proj (2)

VME Prin Mammalian Pharm¬† (4)

**FALL YEAR 2 (9 cr)**

**SPRING YEAR 2 (9 cr)**

**SUMMER YEAR 2 (6 cr)**

GMS 6893¬† Transln. Sci (2)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6943 Internship (3)

GMS 7194 Seminar (1)

GMS 6029 Brain Journal Club (1)

¬†GMS 6971 Masters Research(3)

GMS 6059 Gene Therapy (1)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

GMS 6910 Research (3)

BME 6522 Multi Vari Signal Proc (3)

FIN 6545 Fixed Income¬† (2)

¬†GMS 7794 Neuroscience Seminar (1)



The biomedical and business courses are brought together to create the
curriculum in the table above. In the classroom, students will learn the
profiles of major departments/areas (marketing, sales, finance,
administration, HR, production, manufacturing support, QC/QA, research and
development, regulatory affairs, clinical affairs, etc.), the operations of
each, and how they interact with each other and outside organizations. Each
key operation will be presented in a collection of learning media (classroom,
internet-based, case studies). The curriculum is focused on the regulatory
agencies, the regulations, developing & implementing quality systems,
regulatory compliance, document development, documentation systems and
control, process & facilities control, product release, auditing,
specifications setting, biologics/tissue/device /pharmaceutical manufacturing
technology, maintenance and calibration, process development/optimization,
analytical instrumentation, analytical/laboratory methods, pre-clinical
testing, and clinical trials design and conduct. The curriculum navigates the
corporate environment, and business and economic landscape with a focus on
markets, sales and marketing, supply chain, price controls, import/export
practices, and business operations in the context of, budgets, timelines,
available resources, business regulations, communication barriers, finance and
accounting, and legal constraints (intellectual property, contracts, etc).



Contact [MGM-GradEd@mgm.ufl.edu](mailto:MGM-GradEd@mgm.ufl.edu) for more
information, or phone 352-273-5935

### Contact the Department Office

Your Message (required)

Send Email ¬ª

![UF Health - University of Florida
Health](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-ufhealth-logo.jpg)

**Together** we discover. **Together** we teach.  
**Together** we care for our patients and our communities.  
**Together** we create unstoppable momentum.

![The University of Florida](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-uf-logo.jpg)

  
The Foundation for The Gator Nation

![Make a Gift](https://cdn.webservices.ufhealth.org/wp-
content/themes/UFandShands/images/footer-gift.jpg)

  * **[Log in](http://com-mgm.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/wordpress/wp-login.php) **
  * Updated August 28, 2020
  * [Contact Webmaster](http://webservices.ahc.ufl.edu/contact-webmaster/?website=http://mgm.ufl.edu/academics/programs/masters-of-science-programs/master-of-science-in-translational-biotechnology/)
  * [Sitemap](/sitemap/)
  * This page uses [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics) ([Google Privacy Policy](http://www.google.com/intl/en_ALL/privacypolicy.html))
  * [Disclaimer & Permitted Use](https://ufhealth.org/disclaimer-and-permitted-use)
  * [Disability Services](http://www.ufl.edu/disability/)
  * [Security Policies](https://security.ufl.edu/)
  * [UF Privacy Policy](http://privacy.ufl.edu/privacystatement.html)
  * [Shands Privacy Policy](https://ufhealth.org/shands-privacy-policy)
  * (C) 2020 [University of Florida](http://www.ufl.edu)
  * UF Health is a collaboration of the University of Florida Health Science Center, Shands hospitals and other health care entities. 
  * (C)[ 2020](https://ufhealth.org/copyright-and-disclaimer) [University of Florida Health](https://ufhealth.org)

# Translational research

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to navigation Jump to search

Effort to build on basic scientific research

Not to be confused with [Translation studies](/wiki/Translation_studies).

**Translational research** ‚Äì a term often used interchangeably with **translational medicine** or **translational science** or **bench to bedside** ‚Äì is an effort to build on [basic scientific research](/wiki/Basic_research) to create new [therapies](/wiki/Therapies),[1] [medical procedures](/wiki/Medical_procedure), or [diagnostics](/wiki/Diagnostic). Basic [biomedical research](/wiki/Biomedical_research) is based on studies of [disease processes](/wiki/Pathophysiology) using, for example, [cell cultures](/wiki/Cell_culture) or [animal models](/wiki/Animal_model).[2] The [adjective](/wiki/Adjective) "translational" refers to the "[translation](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/translation)" (the term derives from the [Latin](/wiki/Latin) for "carrying over") of basic scientific findings in a laboratory setting into potential treatments for disease.[3][4][5][6]

## Contents

  * 1 Definitions
  * 2 Comparison to basic research or applied research
  * 3 Challenges and criticisms
  * 4 Facilities
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Definitions[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&se
ction=1)]

Translational medicine is defined by the European Society for Translational
Medicine (EUSTM) as "an interdisciplinary branch of the biomedical field
supported by three main pillars: benchside, bedside and community."[2]

It is defined for school-based education by the Education Futures
Collaboration (www.meshguides.org) as research which translates concepts to
classroom practice.[7] Examples of translational research are commonly found
in education subject association journals and in the MESHGuides which have
been designed for this purpose.[8]

Translational research applies findings from basic science to enhance human
health and well-being. Translational research adopts a scientific
investigation/ enquiry into a given problem facing medical/health practices to
surmount such problem which will helps to raise aggregate health
performance.[9] In a medical research context, it aims to "translate" findings
in fundamental research into medical practice and meaningful health outcomes.
Translational research implements a "bench-to-bedside", from laboratory
experiments through clinical trials to point-of-care patient applications,[10]
model, harnessing knowledge from basic sciences to produce new drugs, devices,
and treatment options for patients. The end point of translational research is
the production of a promising new treatment that can be used with practical
applications, that can then be used clinically or are able to be
commercialized.[3]

As a relatively new research discipline, translational research incorporates
aspects of both basic science and clinical research, requiring skills and
resources that are not readily available in a basic laboratory or clinical
setting. Translational research is conceived due to the elongated time often
taken to bring to bear discovered medical idea in practical terms in a health
system.[_[citation needed](/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed)_] It is for these
reasons that translational research is more effective in dedicated university
science departments or isolated, dedicated research centers.[11] Since 2009,
the field has had specialized journals, the _[American Journal of
Translational Research](/wiki/American_Journal_of_Translational_Research)_ and
_[Translational Research](/wiki/Translational_Research_\(journal\))_ dedicated
to translational research and its findings.

Translational research is broken down into different stages, including two-
stage (T1 and T2), four-stage (T1, T2, T3, and T4), and five-stage (T1, T2,
T3, T4, and T5) schemes. In a two-stage model, _T1 research_, refers to the
"bench-to-bedside" enterprise of translating knowledge from the basic sciences
into the development of new treatments and _T2 research_ refers to translating
the findings from clinical trials into everyday practice.[3] In a five-stage
scheme, T1 involves basic research, T2 involves pre-clinical research, T3
involves clinical research, T4 involves clinical implementation, and T5
involves implementation in the public health sphere. Waldman et al. propose a
scheme going from T0 to T5. T0 is laboratory (before human) research. In
T1-translation, new laboratory discoveries are first translated to human
application, which includes phase I & II clinical trials. In T2-translation,
candidate health applications progress through clinical development to
engender the evidence base for integration into clinical practice guidelines.
This includes phase III clinical trials. In T3-translation, dissemination into
community practices happens. T4-translation seeks to (1) advance scientific
knowledge to paradigms of disease prevention, and (2) move health practices
established in T3 into population health impact. Finally, T5-translation
focuses on improving the wellness of populations by reforming suboptimal
social structures.[12]

In a two-stage scheme, translational research includes two areas of
translation. One is the process of applying discoveries generated during
research in the laboratory, and in preclinical studies, to the development of
trials and studies in humans. The second area of translation concerns research
aimed at enhancing the adoption of best practices in the community. Cost-
effectiveness of prevention and treatment strategies is also an important part
of translational science.[3]

## Comparison to basic research or applied research[[edit](/w/index.php?title=
Translational_research&action=edit&section=2)]

[Basic research](/wiki/Basic_research) is the systematic study directed toward
greater [knowledge](/wiki/Knowledge) or understanding of the fundamental
aspects of [phenomena](/wiki/Phenomena) and is performed without thought of
practical ends. It results in general knowledge and understanding of nature
and its laws.[13]

Applied research is a form of systematic inquiry involving the practical
application of [science](/wiki/Science). It accesses and uses the research
communities' accumulated theories, knowledge, methods, and techniques, for a
specific, often state, [business](/wiki/Commerce), or [client-
driven](/wiki/Customer) purpose.[14]

In medicine, translational research is increasingly a separate research field.
A citation pattern between the applied and basic sides in cancer research
appeared around 2000.[15]

## Challenges and criticisms[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&
action=edit&section=3)]

Critics of translational research (to the exclusion of more basic research)
point to examples of important drugs that arose from fortuitous discoveries in
the course of basic research such as [penicillin](/wiki/Penicillin) and
[benzodiazepines](/wiki/Benzodiazepines),[16] and the importance of basic
research in improving our understanding of basic biological facts (e.g. the
function and structure of [DNA](/wiki/DNA)) that go on to transform applied
medical research.[17]

Examples of failed translational research in the pharmaceutical industry
include the failure of anti-aŒ≤ therapeutics in Alzheimer's disease.[18] Other
problems have stemmed from the widespread irreproducibility thought to exist
in translational research literature.[19]

## Facilities[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&sec
tion=4)]

In U.S., the [National Institutes of
Health](/wiki/National_Institutes_of_Health) has implemented a major national
initiative to leverage existing academic health center infrastructure through
the Clinical and Translational Science Awards. The [National Center for
Advancing Translational
Sciences](/wiki/National_Center_for_Advancing_Translational_Sciences) (NCATS)
was established on December 23, 2011.[20]

Although translational research is relatively new, it is being recognized and
embraced globally. Some major centers for translational research include:

  * About 60 hubs of the Clinical and Translational Science Awards program.[21]
  * [Translational Research Institute (Australia)](/wiki/Translational_Research_Institute_\(Australia\)), [Brisbane, Queensland](/wiki/Brisbane,_Queensland), [Australia](/wiki/Australia).
  * [Stanford University Medical Center](/wiki/Stanford_University_Medical_Center), [Stanford, California](/wiki/Stanford,_California), United States.
  * [Translational Genomics Research Institute](/wiki/Translational_Genomics_Research_Institute), [Phoenix, Arizona](/wiki/Phoenix,_Arizona), United States.
  * [Maine Medical Center](/wiki/Maine_Medical_Center) in [Portland, Maine](/wiki/Portland,_Maine), United States has a dedicated translational research institute.[22]
  * [Scripps Research Institute](/wiki/Scripps_Research_Institute#Scripps_Florida), [Florida](/wiki/Florida), United States, has a dedicated translational research institute.[23]
  * [UC Davis Clinical and Translational Science Center](/wiki/UC_Davis), [Sacramento, California](/wiki/Sacramento,_California)[24]
  * [Clinical and Translational Science Institute, University of Pittsburgh](/wiki/University_of_Pittsburgh), [Pittsburgh](/wiki/Pittsburgh), [Pennsylvania](/wiki/Pennsylvania)[25]

Additionally, translational research is now acknowledged by some universities
as a dedicated field to study a PhD or graduate certificate in, in a medical
context. These institutes currently include [Monash
University](/wiki/Monash_University) in [Victoria,
Australia](/wiki/Victoria,_Australia),[26] the [University of
Queensland](/wiki/University_of_Queensland), Diamantina Institute in
[Brisbane, Australia](/wiki/Brisbane,_Australia),[27] at [Duke
University](/wiki/Duke_University) in [Durham, North
Carolina](/wiki/Durham,_North_Carolina), [America](/wiki/United_States),[28]
at [Creighton University](/wiki/Creighton_University) in [Omaha,
Nebraska](/wiki/Omaha,_Nebraska)[29] at [Emory
University](/wiki/Emory_University) in [Atlanta,
Georgia](/wiki/Atlanta,_Georgia),[30] and at [31][The George Washington
University](/wiki/The_George_Washington_University) in [Washington,
D.C.](/wiki/Washington,_D.C.). The industry and academic interactions to
promote translational science initiatives has been carried out by various
global centers such as [European Commission](/wiki/European_Commission),
[GlaxoSmithKline](/wiki/GlaxoSmithKline) and [Novartis](/wiki/Novartis)
Institute for [Biomedical Research](/wiki/Biomedical_Research).[32]

## See
also[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&section=5)]

  * [Biological engineering](/wiki/Biological_engineering)
  * _[Clinical and Translational Science](/wiki/Clinical_and_Translational_Science)_ (journal)
  * [Clinical trials](/wiki/Clinical_trials)
  * [Personalized medicine](/wiki/Personalized_medicine)
  * [Systems biology](/wiki/Systems_biology)
  * [Translational research informatics](/wiki/Translational_research_informatics)

## References[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&sec
tion=6)]

  1. **^** Mahla RS (2016). ["Stem Cells Applications in Regenerative Medicine and Disease Therapeutics"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4969512). _International Journal of Cell Biology_. **2016** (7): 19. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1155/2016/6940283](https://doi.org/10.1155%2F2016%2F6940283). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[4969512](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4969512). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[27516776](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27516776).CS1 maint: uses authors parameter ([link](/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_uses_authors_parameter))
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Cohrs RJ, Martin T, Ghahramani P, Bidaut L, Higgins PJ, Shahzad A (2014). ["Translational Medicine definition by the European Society for Translational Medicine"](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nhtm.2014.12.002). _New Horizons in Translational Medicine_. **2** (3): 86‚Äì88. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.nhtm.2014.12.002](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.nhtm.2014.12.002).
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Woolf SH (January 2008). "The meaning of translational research and why it matters". _JAMA_. **299** (2): 211‚Äì3. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1001/jama.2007.26](https://doi.org/10.1001%2Fjama.2007.26). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[18182604](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18182604).
  4. **^** Reis SE, Berglund L, Bernard GR, Califf RM, Fitzgerald GA, Johnson PC (March 2010). ["Reengineering the national clinical and translational research enterprise: the strategic plan of the National Clinical and Translational Science Awards Consortium"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2829722). _Academic Medicine_. **85** (3): 463‚Äì9. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1097/acm.0b013e3181ccc877](https://doi.org/10.1097%2Facm.0b013e3181ccc877). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[2829722](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2829722). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[20182119](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20182119).
  5. **^** Science Careers Staff (2011). ["Careers in Clinical and Translational Research"](http://www.sciencemag.org/careers/2011/04/careers-clinical-and-translational-research). _Science_. Retrieved March 24, 2018.
  6. **^** Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (2017). ["Translating Research Into Practice"](http://www.ahrq.gov/research/findings/factsheets/translating/index.html). _www.ahrq.gov_. Retrieved March 25, 2018.
  7. **^** Burden K, Younie S, Leask M (October 2013). "Translational research principles applied to education: the mapping educational specialist knowhow (MESH) initiative". _Journal of Education for Teaching_. **39** (4): 459‚Äì463. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1080/02607476.2013.801216](https://doi.org/10.1080%2F02607476.2013.801216).
  8. **^** Younie S (2016). "Mapping Educational Specialist knowHow (MESH)". _International Teacher Education Knowledge Mobilisation Summit: a framework for UNESCO SDG4 2030_. London: Whitehall.
  9. **^** Akarowhe K (2018) Translational Research: Definitions and Relevance. J Biol Med Res Vol.2 No.2:13
  10. **^** ["What is Translational Science"](http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1149350). _tuftsctsi.org_. Tufts Clinical and Translational Science Institute. Retrieved 9 June 2015.
  11. **^** Pober JS, Neuhauser CS, Pober JM (November 2001). "Obstacles facing translational research in academic medical centers". _FASEB Journal_. **15** (13): 2303‚Äì13. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1096/fj.01-0540lsf](https://doi.org/10.1096%2Ffj.01-0540lsf). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[11689456](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11689456).
  12. **^** Waldman, Scott A.; Terzic, Andre (2010-10-01). ["Clinical and Translational Science: From Bench-Bedside to Global Village"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5439613). _Clinical and Translational Science_. **3** (5): 254‚Äì257. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1111/j.1752-8062.2010.00227.x](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1752-8062.2010.00227.x). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_\(identifier\))¬†[1752-8062](//www.worldcat.org/issn/1752-8062). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[5439613](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5439613). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[20973923](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20973923).
  13. **^** "What is basic research?" (PDF). National Science Foundation. Retrieved 2014-05-31.
  14. **^** Roll-Hansen N (April 2009). [Why the distinction between basic (theoretical) and applied (practical) research is important in the politics of science](http://www.lse.ac.uk/CPNSS/research/concludedResearchProjects/ContingencyDissentInScience/DP/DPRoll-HansenOnline0409.pdf) (PDF) (Report). The London School of Economics and Political Science. Retrieved November 30, 2013.
  15. **^** Cambrosio A, Keating P, Mercier S, Lewison G, Mogoutov A (December 2006). "Mapping the emergence and development of translational cancer research". _European Journal of Cancer_. **42** (18): 3140‚Äì8. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.ejca.2006.07.020](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.ejca.2006.07.020). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[17079135](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17079135).
  16. **^** Tone, Andrea (2009). _The Age of Anxiety: the History of America's Love Affairs with Tranquilizers_.
  17. **^** Ashutosh Jogalekar (November 26, 2012). ["The perils of translational research"](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/the-curious-wavefunction/2012/11/26/the-perils-of-translational-research/). _Scientific American Blog Network_.
  18. **^** Golde TE, Schneider LS, Koo EH (January 2011). ["Anti-aŒ≤ therapeutics in Alzheimer's disease: the need for a paradigm shift"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3058906). _Neuron_. **69** (2): 203‚Äì13. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/j.neuron.2011.01.002](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.neuron.2011.01.002). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\))¬†[3058906](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3058906). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[21262461](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21262461).
  19. **^** Prinz F, Schlange T, Asadullah K (August 2011). ["Believe it or not: how much can we rely on published data on potential drug targets?"](https://doi.org/10.1038/nrd3439-c1). _Nature Reviews. Drug Discovery_. **10** (9): 712. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1038/nrd3439-c1](https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fnrd3439-c1). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\))¬†[21892149](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21892149).
  20. **^** ["–ù–æ–≤–æ—Å—Ç–∏ –ú—é–Ω—Ö–µ–Ω–∞ –∏ –ì–µ—Ä–º–∞–Ω–∏–∏"](http://www.ctsaweb.org/). _CTSA Web_.
  21. **^** ["Clinical and Translational Science Awards Program Hubs"](http://www.ncats.nih.gov/ctsa/about/hubs). _www.ncats.nih.gov_. National Institutes for Health. Retrieved 31 March 2016.
  22. **^** ["Maine Medical Center Research Institute attracts top scientists, licenses discoveries"](http://www.mainebiz.biz/article/20150615/CURRENTEDITION/306119996/maine-medical-center-research-institute-attracts-top-scientists-licenses-discoveries). _www.mainebiz.biz_. Mainebiz. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  23. **^** ["Translational Research Institute"](https://www.scripps.edu/research/tri/). _www.scripps.edu_. The Scripps Research Institute. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  24. **^** UC Davis Health System, Clinical and Translational Science Center. ["UC Davis Clinical and Translational Science Center: About Us"](http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/ctsc/aboutus/).
  25. **^** <https://ctsi.pitt.edu/about-us/>
  26. **^** ["Translational Research ‚Äì PhD and Graduate Certificate"](http://www.med.monash.edu.au/cecs/education/translational-research.html). _www.med.monash.edu.au_. Monash University. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  27. **^** ["MPhil in Translational Research"](http://www.di.uq.edu.au/mphil-translational-research). _www.di.uq.edu.au_. University of Queensland Diamantina Institute. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  28. **^** ["Clinical and Translational Research"](http://medschool.duke.edu/research/clinical-and-translational-research). _medschool.duke.edu_. Duke University. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
  29. **^** ["Center for Clinical and Translational Science"](http://medschool.creighton.edu/medicine/centers/cts/). _medschool.creighton.edu_. Creighton University. Retrieved 14 July 2015.
  30. **^** ["Certificate Program in Translational"](http://www.gs.emory.edu/sites/translational/). Emory University. Retrieved 4 Jan 2018.
  31. **^** ["PhD in Translational Health Sciences"](https://smhs.gwu.edu/translational-health-sciences/). _smhs.gwu.edu_. The George Washington University. Retrieved 9 June 2019.
  32. **^** ["Novartis"](http://www.worldpharmanews.com/novartis/1858-novartis-appoints-timothy-wright-md-as-global-head-development-novartis-pharmaceuticals). _World Pharma News_.

## External
links[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit&section=7)]

  * [Translational Research Institute](http://www.tri.edu.au)
  * [NIH Roadmap](https://web.archive.org/web/20100611171315/http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/)
  * [American Journal of Translational Research](http://www.ajtr.org/)
  * [Center for Comparative Medicine and Translational Research](http://www.cvm.ncsu.edu/ccmtr/)
  * [OSCAT2012](http://crdd.osdd.net/oscat/): Conference on translational medicine

![](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from "[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational_rese
arch&oldid=956123012](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational
_research&oldid=956123012)"

[Categories](/wiki/Help:Category):

  * [Medical research](/wiki/Category:Medical_research)
  * [Research](/wiki/Category:Research)
  * [Translational medicine](/wiki/Category:Translational_medicine)
  * [Nursing research](/wiki/Category:Nursing_research)

Hidden categories:

  * [CS1 maint: uses authors parameter](/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_uses_authors_parameter)
  * [Articles with short description](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_short_description)
  * [Short description is different from Wikidata](/wiki/Category:Short_description_is_different_from_Wikidata)
  * [All articles with unsourced statements](/wiki/Category:All_articles_with_unsourced_statements)
  * [Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_unsourced_statements_from_November_2019)

## Navigation menu

###  Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * [Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk)
  * [Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions)
  * [Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Translational+research)
  * [Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Translational+research)

###  Namespaces

  * [Article](/wiki/Translational_research)
  * [Talk](/wiki/Talk:Translational_research)

###  Variants

###  Views

  * [Read](/wiki/Translational_research)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=edit)
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=history)

###  More

###  Search

###  Navigation

  * [Main page](/wiki/Main_Page)
  * [Contents](/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents)
  * [Current events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events)
  * [Random article](/wiki/Special:Random)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Contact us](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Donate](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en)
  * [Wikipedia store](//shop.wikimedia.org)

###  Contribute

  * [Help](/wiki/Help:Contents)
  * [Community portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal)
  * [Recent changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)

###  Tools

  * [What links here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Translational_research)
  * [Related changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Translational_research)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)
  * [Special pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages)
  * [Permanent link](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&oldid=956123012)
  * [Page information](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&action=info)
  * [Cite this page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Translational_research&id=956123012&wpFormIdentifier=titleform)
  * [Wikidata item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q474859)

###  Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Translational_research&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&printable=yes)

###  Languages

  * [ÿßŸÑÿπÿ±ÿ®Ÿäÿ©](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A8%D8%AD%D9%88%D8%AB_%D9%85%D8%AA%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%85%D8%A9)
  * [ŸÅÿßÿ±ÿ≥€å](https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%DA%98%D9%88%D9%87%D8%B4%E2%80%8C%D9%87%D8%A7%DB%8C_%DA%A9%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%A8%D8%B1%D8%AF%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D8%B3%D8%A7%D8%B2%DB%8C)
  * [Galego](https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Investigaci%C3%B3n_traslacional)
  * [Êó•Êú¨Ë™û](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%A9%8B%E6%B8%A1%E3%81%97%E7%A0%94%E7%A9%B6)
  * [Svenska](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translationell_forskning)

[Edit links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q474859
#sitelinks-wikipedia)

  * This page was last edited on 11 May 2020, at 16:37¬†(UTC).
  * Text is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License); additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the [Terms of Use](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use) and [Privacy Policy](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy). Wikipedia¬Æ is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.](//www.wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit organization.
  * [Privacy policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer)
  * [Contact Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Mobile view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Translational_research&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile)
  * [Developers](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute)
  * [Statistics](https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org)
  * [Cookie statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement)
  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.png)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/static/images/footer/poweredby_mediawiki_88x31.png)

Skip to main content

Advertisement

[ ![Advertisement](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad/ad?iu=/285/geneticsinmedi
cine.nature.com/article&sz=728x90&c=510013522&t=pos%3Dtop%26type%3Darticle%26a
rtid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine
, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gamp
ad/jump?iu=/285/geneticsinmedicine.nature.com/article&sz=728x90&c=510013522&t=
pos%3Dtop%26type%3Darticle%26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211
000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with
limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a
more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer).
In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site
without styles and JavaScript.

[ ![Genetics in Medicine](//media.springernature.com/full/nature-
cms/uploads/product/gim/header-0241c1c390bf6361909b8c3f5fb8546f.svg) ](/gim)

Search [ My Account ](/nams/svc/myaccount) [ Login ](https://idp.nature.com/au
thorize/natureuser?client_id=grover&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nature.com%
2Farticles%2Fgim200275)

  * Explore our content
  * Journal information

  1. [ nature](/)
  2. [ genetics in medicine](/gim)
  3. [ acmg presidential address](/gim/articles?type=acmg-presidential-address)
  4. article

Translational genomics in medical genetics

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

  * Published: November 2002

# Translational genomics in medical genetics

  * Edward R B Mccabe1,2¬†

_[Genetics in Medicine_](/gim) **volume¬†4**,¬†pages468‚Äì471(2002)Cite this
article

  * 292 Accesses

  * 6 Citations

  * 0 Altmetric

  * [Metrics details](/articles/gim200275/metrics)

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

## Main

I want to thank you very much for giving me the honor of serving you as the
President of the American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) during 2001 and
2002. I consider myself extremely privileged for you to have placed your trust
in me.

The ACMG is the organization within clinical genetics that is responsible for
education and policy. Last year in my presidential address I argued that we
blend exacting science with compassion and advocacy in the care of our
patients, and we must work individually and collectively to ensure full and
equal access to genetic information and genetic health
professionals.[1](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR1) This year I will discuss the
critical need for medical geneticists to be the leaders in translating genomic
information for practical medical use.

The premise underlying my presentation is that for the Human Genome Project to
have its fullest impact, its products in the form of sequence and concepts
must be translated for use in clinical medicine. Translational genomics will
be the result of this endeavor, and medical geneticists should be the leaders
in this arena.

The success of translational genomics will depend on our ability to discern
the complexity of interactions among genes, gene products, and the
environment. A full understanding of this complexity will depend upon new ways
of considering genetics in the genomic era. This will require an intermingling
of concepts from biology, engineering, and information systems, and
comparisons within and between genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, and
metabolomes.

We are already seeing a shifting focus in medical genetics from rare to common
diseases. I will argue, however, that translational genomics teaches us that
the differences between rare and common diseases are not so extreme, because
in fact there are a multitude of genotypes for ‚Äúcommon disease‚Äù phenotypes. If
we are to improve significantly the care of our patients with rare and common
genetic diseases, then we must develop collaborative, multi-institutional,
protocol-driven clinical studies.

### Human Genome Project and translational genomics

Genetics has come a long way in less than 50 years, from the original
identification of the double helical structure of DNA by Watson and
Crick[2](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR2) in April 1953, to the drafts of the
human genome published by the public[3](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR3) and
private[4](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR4) efforts in February 2001.

Initiated in 1990, the completion of the public Human Genome Project was
originally planned for 2005. However, the finished sequence is anticipated for
spring 2003, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Watson and Crick
publication.[2](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR2)

The results of the Human Genome Project will involve not only the complete
sequencing of the human genome, but also the creation of a new branch of
science and medicine, genomics, as well as a series of derivative disciplines.
If a genome is all of the DNA for an organism, then genomics is the study of
that genome and its implications. Derivative disciplines include
transcriptomics, the study of the transcriptome, representing all of the
transcripts or RNA copies of the genes in a cell, tissue, or individual;
proteomics, the study of the proteome, representing all of the proteins in a
cell, tissue, or individual; and metabolomics, the study of the metabolome,
representing all of the molecular components of a cell, tissue, or individual
that are produced by the proteins of the proteome. Additional derivative
disciplines are being and will continue to be described.

Genomics, its derivative disciplines, and the synthesis of this information
will generate the complete parts' lists and the parts' assembly instructions
for a fully functioning organism.

The promise of the Human Genome Project is improved diagnosis and treatment
through the application of genomic information and technologies, leading to
predictive medicine and individualized medical care.[5](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR5) Genomic medicine will be predictive rather than reactive. It will be
preventive in its philosophical orientation, rather than the more traditional
medical approach of responding only after acute presentation. The predictive
and preventive nature of genomic medicine will lead to screening of
populations, subpopulations, and individuals for genetic predispositions to
rare and common disorders.

Medical geneticists should be the translators for genomic medicine. The ACMG,
with its roles in education and policy formation, gives our membership the
venue in which to organize these translational efforts. We must prepare
ourselves for our roles in translational genomics by addressing the complexity
of biological systems.

### Complexity of interactions between genes, gene products, and environment

The disciplines of genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics are
already changing our concepts regarding the organization of biological
systems. Many of us thought of biochemical pathways as an interconnection of
enzymes and metabolites in a relatively homogeneously connected network. We
have learned that such systems are referred to as exponential networks, in
which the probability of a node's having increasing connectivity falls as an
exponential function.[6](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR6),[7](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR7) Robust biological and human-designed systems have the hub-and-spoke
architecture of scale-free networks. These scale-free networks are more
heterogeneous in their connectivity, with most nodes having one or a very few
contacts, and only rare nodes being highly connected. Examples of scale-free
networks include the Internet[6](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR6) and natural
proteomes.[8](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR8)

Scale-free networks are highly robust, meaning that it is difficult to
fragment such networks.[7](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR7) Communications between
nodes are unaffected by very high failure rates, since most of the nodes have
very low connectivity. If a node is lost, then there is a very high
probability that this node will have been connected to only one other node,
and while this connection will fail, there is a very low probability that the
overall function of the network will be compromised.

The structural features that give scale-free networks their robust properties,
however, are also the source of their vulnerability. The highly connected
nodes, although quite rare, are critical to network function. Failure of these
highly connected nodes, such as by a mutation in a biological scale-free
network, will fragment the network and threaten the survival of the network.
Considerations of the error and attack tolerance, as well as the
vulnerabilities of scale-free networks, are essential to our understanding of
the pathogenesis of genetic diseases.[7](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR7),[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR9) Such considerations require a global
view of an organism's functional components and their integration, informed,
for example, by a knowledge of that organism's genome, transcriptome,
proteome, and metabolome.

#### Intermingling of biology, engineering, and information systems

Our thinking about the complexity of cellular and organismic biology will
require us to move from molecular to modular concepts.[10](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR10) Within this modular view of biology, the components will have
properties that we will recognize to be similar to those in engineering and
computer science. Recent evidence has shown that a biological system may be
constructed that will function as an oscillator[11](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR11) or a toggle switch.[12](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR12) This modular view
of biology will require the formulation of new models and general principles
if we are to achieve an improved ability to appreciate and manipulate these
functional modules.[10](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR10)

The Human Genome Project is also bringing about major changes in
bioinformatics. Many think that, while the sequencing efforts represent a
major scientific accomplishment, the real ‚Äúgenomics revolution‚Äù is in the
ability to manage and analyze the information contained within the sequence.
The ongoing efforts in sequencing and informatics will permit translation for
improved medical care, although there is a substantial amount of work to be
done before practicable translation is available to individuals.

If the sequencing of an individual's genome would be available for $1,000,
then let us consider some of the issues that would accompany the translation
of this information for medical decision-making by that individual. For any
data acquisition there is inevitably an error rate, and this will be true for
genomic sequence. Even if the error rate is quite low, the size of the genome
is such that numerous errors are anticipated until the cost is so low that
multiple repetitions are possible. For example, if sequencing is 99.99%
accurate, this would result in an error every 10,000 nucleotides, or with a
human genome of approximately 3.2 billion base pairs the number of errors
would exceed 300,000. Interpretation of sequence variation between individuals
would have to consider differences due to technical errors as well as natural
polymorphisms. In addition, interpretation of an individual's genomic sequence
will require a better understanding of complexity in biology, from the
multiple functions of individual proteins to a modular view of biological
networks. Beyond the technical and biological considerations in the use of the
genomic sequence information are ethical, legal, and social issues. The cost
of $1,000 that we have set arbitrarily would be affordable for some and
absolutely inaccessible for others. For those who could afford to have their
genomes sequenced, there would be the issues of privacy and discrimination,
and how this information could be stored in a manner that would ensure
fidelity and accessibility without compromising
insurability.[1](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR1)

#### Comparisons within and between genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, and
metabolomes

Comparisons of sequences within and between organisms may be quite powerful.
Such comparisons are quite common and useful for DNA coding sequences and
deduced amino acid sequences, for which similarities and differences define
and distinguish, for example, functional domains and gene families.
Comparisons among noncoding sequences may identify and distinguish regulatory
elements. Other conserved blocks of noncoding sequences are being recognized,
but for many of these conserved regions their functions remain to be
identified. A fuller understanding of function and interrelationships
throughout the genome, transcriptome, and proteome and their impact on the
metabolome will be required for interpretation of sequence differences within
an individual's genome.

Functional comparisons must be made at all levels, but at this time are
focusing on the proteome and metabolome. Studies in microorganisms can give us
insight into principles underlying the robustness of all biological systems.
Growth of _Escherichia coli_ on glucose was analyzed to determine which
enzymes contributed most strongly to the robust properties of this metabolic
system.[13](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR13) Flux limits for enzymatic reactions
were examined below which growth on glucose was compromised, and these enzymes
were classified into three groups: pentose phosphate pathway, three-carbon
glycolytic pathway, and tricarboxylic acid cycle. For the pentose phosphate
pathway and tricarboxylic acid cycle, growth was not compromised until
residual flux fell to ‚âà15‚Äì30% of normal. For the three-carbon glycolytic
pathway, however, growth was compromised when flux fell to only 63% of normal,
indicating that this region of metabolism was much more sensitive to
variation. Therefore, while growth of _E. coli_ on glucose is in general a
highly robust property, not all components are equally resistant to
perturbation.

Comparisons of the large-scale organization of metabolic networks between
organisms also may give insight into the robustness of biological systems. The
metabolic networks of 43 organisms were compared quantitatively for 43
organisms representative of archae, bacteria, and
eukaryotes.[14](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR14) Significant differences in the
pathways were observed among these organisms, but the overall design
properties were quite similar. The investigators speculated that the scale-
free topological organization was the common design-element in these organisms
and that this organization contributed to the common feature of robust
tolerance to variation among these very different organisms.

#### _DAX1_ deficiency and pertubation in a complex network

Dosage-sensitive sex reversal, adrenal hypoplasia congenta, on the X
chromosome, gene 1 (_DAX1_), is the nuclear receptor family member encoded by
the _NROB1_ gene.[15](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR15) Loss of _DAX1_ function by
deletion or point mutation causes disruption of the normal development of the
steroidogenic axis leading to adrenal hypoplasia congenita associated with
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. The key question is how the loss of a single
gene product results in the compromise of a robust developmental system.

Traditionally we have thought of blocks in metabolic pathways as analogous to
the damming of a flow of water with a buildup behind the dam and overflow into
side channels, and of blocks in transcriptional cascades as interruption of
signal transfer. Consideration of the complexity of developmental networks,
however, gives us a different view of the effects of mutations. _DAX1_ is a
node in a complex network with a high level of
connectivity.[16](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR16) Loss of _DAX1_ function would
not simply compromise a one-dimensional transcriptional cascade, but we would
speculate that mutation of _DAX1_ would compromise the function of each of the
transcription factors distal to it in the network, and therefore an entire
sector of the transcriptional network would be lost.[16](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR16)

### Shifting focus from rare to common diseases

Some consider the shift in focus within medical genetics from rare, Mendelian
diseases to common, complex disorders as a paradigm shift. We must consider,
however, that rare and common disorders, or ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene and multigenic
diseases, respectively, represent points on a continuum and not distinct
entities.[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR9),[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR17)‚Äì[19](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR19)

#### Multitude of genotypes even for common disease phenotypes

Complexity is the rule for the phenotypes of ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian traits, as
well as for common, multigenic disorders.[9](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR9),[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR17)‚Äì[20](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR20) In
a Mendelian or ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene disorder, there is one gene that exerts a primary
effect, but the phenotype in the individual patient is influenced by
additional modifier genes.[17](/articles/gim200275#ref-
CR17)‚Äì[19](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR19) As a single gene loses its primary
effect and the influences of two or more genes begin to be approximately
coequal, the disorder is recognized as multigenic. Such multigenic diseases
may also be referred to as ‚Äúcomplex‚Äù diseases, but this terminology denies the
fundamental complexity of the ‚Äúsingle‚Äù gene diseases. The major portion of the
common disorders, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes
mellitus, are presumed to be multigenic with superimposition of environmental
influences.

Since the phenotypes of the ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian disorders represent the
influences of the primary genetic abnormality and additional modifier genes,
and those for multigenic disorders clearly involve the influences of multiple
genes, and both have additional environmental influences, therefore the
phenotypes of individuals in all categories of genetic disorders will be
determined by the individuals' extended genotypes. In other words, each
individual, regardless of the type of genetic disease they experience, are
influenced by their unique genotype and environmental experience.

For Mendelian disorders, although there may be a group of modifier genes that
may influence the phenotype, not every modifier gene will be involved in each
patient. Similarly, for the multigenic disorders, if there are large groups of
genes that may be involved in the pathogenesis, only a subset of these will be
involved in any individual patient. Therefore, any genetic disease will be
composed of individuals with rare composite genotypes, and we can develop
similar approaches for the acquisition of an evidence base across all genetic
disorders.

#### Development of collaborative, multi-institutional, protocol-driven
clinical studies

The use of clinical studies involving collaborations between multiple
institutions with strict adherence to protocols developed by consensus among
the participating investigators represents the approach that will optimize
progress toward a sound evidence base when individual patients are rare. We
have determined that even for common disorders, those with an identical
composite genotype will be rare; therefore, such an approach will be just as
valid for rare disorders as for common diseases.

One example from genetics is the multi-institutional, randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled investigation of the value of penicillin prophylaxis
in patients with sickle cell disease.[21](/articles/gim200275#ref-CR21)
Accumulation of a significant number of patients with sickle cell disease from
a number of centers in a carefully controlled, protocol-driven study permitted
the very clear conclusion to be drawn that penicillin did benefit patients
with sickle cell disease. In fact, the statistical power of the study was so
strong that the study was terminated earlier than anticipated when the data
indicated that the patients on placebo were at risk for sepsis and death far
in excess of those on penicillin prophylaxis. The consequence of this well-
controlled study was the conclusion by a National Institutes of Health
Consensus Development Conference that all neonates should be screened for
sickle cell disease in order to identify those with this disorder and initiate
penicillin prophylaxis to prevent the morbidity and mortality associated with
clinical presentation in the absence of a diagnosis.[22](/articles/gim200275
#ref-CR22)

Perhaps the most successful example of a multi-institutional, protocol-driven
clinical collaboration is the Children's Oncology Group (COG). It is estimated
that at least 85% of children with cancer are enrolled in COG protocols, and
if those involved with natural history studies are included, the enrollment
may be as high as 95%. The involvement of such a high proportion of children
with cancer in clinical trials by COG and its predecessors permits an
iterative approach to improvements in interventions and has been credited with
the remarkable success that has been achieved in pediatric cancer outcomes.

The highly individualistic approach that characterizes much of American
medicine, including medical genetics, provides the practitioner with
management autonomy. If we argue that pooling of patients into collaborative,
protocol-driven clinical studies will facilitate progress, then the conclusion
would be that the lack of collaboration by autonomous physicians delays
progress unnecessarily. To be successful, an organized national approach to
develop collaborative studies in medical genetics will require ‚Äúbuy-in‚Äù by the
clinical genetics community (with associated loss of practitioner autonomy)
and adequate resources to support the protocols (including patient enrollment
and support, data analyses, and iterative interventional changes).

### Summary and conclusions

The need for translational research has received considerable recent
attention. Medical geneticists and the ACMG have the opportunity to establish
a model for translational studies for the medical community through
collaborative natural history studies and interventional clinical trials.
Medical genetics will become the clinical embodiment of the Human Genome
Project if we are successful in transliterating genomic sequences and concepts
into the language of medicine. Optimal care for our patients and those of our
colleagues in other specialties of medicine will require that medical
geneticists continue to accept the responsibility for translational genomics.

## References

  1. 1

McCabe ERB . Clinical genetics: compassion, access, science, and advocacy.
_Genet Med_ 2001; **3**: 426‚Äì429.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADC%252BD3MnmvVylug%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1097%2F00125817-200111000-00009)¬† [ Google Schola
r](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Clinical%20genetics%3A%20co
mpassion%2C%20access%2C%20science%2C%20and%20advocacy&journal=Genet%20Med&volu
me=3&pages=426-429&publication_year=2001&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  2. 2

Watson JD . Molecular structure of nucleic acids: a structure for deoxyribose
nucleic acid. _Nature_ 1953; **171**: 737‚Äì738.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaG2cXivVGktA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F171737a0)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Molecular%20structure%20of%20nucleic%20acid
s%3A%20a%20structure%20for%20deoxyribose%20nucleic%20acid&journal=Nature&volum
e=171&pages=737-738&publication_year=1953&author=Watson%2CJD)

  3. 3

International Human Genome Sequencing Consortium Initial sequencing and
analysis of the human genome. _Nature_ 2001; **409**: 860‚Äì921.

  4. 4

Venter JC, Adams MD, Myers EW, Li PW, Mural RJ, Sutton GG, et al. The sequence
of the human genome. _Science_ 2001; **291**: 1304‚Äì1351.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXhtlSgsbo%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1126%2Fscience.1058040)¬† [ Google Scholar](http:/
/scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20sequence%20of%20the%20human%20
genome&journal=Science&volume=291&pages=1304-1351&publication_year=2001&author
=Venter%2CJC&author=Adams%2CMD&author=Myers%2CEW&author=Li%2CPW&author=Mural%2
CRJ&author=Sutton%2CGG)

  5. 5

Collins F . Shattuck lecture: medical and societal consequences of the Human
Genome Project. _N Engl J Med_ 2000; **341**: 28‚Äì37.

[Article](https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJM199907013410106)¬† [ Google Scholar](ht
tp://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Shattuck%20lecture%3A%20medical%
20and%20societal%20consequences%20of%20the%20Human%20Genome%20Project&journal=
N%20Engl%20J%20Med&volume=341&pages=28-37&publication_year=2000&author=Collins
%2CF)

  6. 6

Tu Y . How robust is the Internet?. _Nature_ 2000; **406**: 353‚Äì354.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlslKjtbs%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35019222)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=How%20robust%20is%20the%20Internet%3F&journ
al=Nature&volume=406&pages=353-354&publication_year=2000&author=Tu%2CY)

  7. 7

Albert R, Jeong H, Barabasi AL . Error and attack tolerance of complex
networks. _Nature_ 2000; **406**: 378‚Äì382.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlslKgtLk%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35019019)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Error%20and%20attack%20tolerance%20of%20com
plex%20networks&journal=Nature&volume=406&pages=378-382&publication_year=2000&
author=Albert%2CR&author=Jeong%2CH&author=Barabasi%2CAL)

  8. 8

Eisenberg D, Marcotte EM, Xenarios I, Yeates TO . Protein function in the
post-genomic era. _Nature_ 2000; **405**: 823‚Äì826.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXksVyksLw%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35015694)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Protein%20function%20in%20the%20post-genomi
c%20era&journal=Nature&volume=405&pages=823-826&publication_year=2000&author=E
isenberg%2CD&author=Marcotte%2CEM&author=Xenarios%2CI&author=Yeates%2CTO)

  9. 9

Dipple KM, Phelan JK, McCabe ERB . Consequences of complexity within
biological networks: robustness and health, or vulnerability and disease. _Mol
Genet Metab_ 2001; **74**: 45‚Äì50.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXntlOkt78%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1006%2Fmgme.2001.3227)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://
scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Consequences%20of%20complexity%20with
in%20biological%20networks%3A%20robustness%20and%20health%2C%20or%20vulnerabil
ity%20and%20disease&journal=Mol%20Genet%20Metab&volume=74&pages=45-50&publicat
ion_year=2001&author=Dipple%2CKM&author=Phelan%2CJK&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  10. 10

Hartwell L, Hopfield JJ, Leibler S, Murray AW . From molecular to modular cell
biology. _Nature_ 1999; **402**: C47‚ÄìC52.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK1MXnslKms70%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35011540)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=From%20molecular%20to%20modular%20cell%20bi
ology&journal=Nature&volume=402&pages=C47-C52&publication_year=1999&author=Har
twell%2CL&author=Hopfield%2CJJ&author=Leibler%2CS&author=Murray%2CAW)

  11. 11

Elowitz MB, Leibler S . A synthetic oscillatory network of transcriptional
regulators. _Nature_ 2000; **403**: 335‚Äì338.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADC%252BD3c7itlamsA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35002125)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schola
r.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=A%20synthetic%20oscillatory%20network%20of%
20transcriptional%20regulators&journal=Nature&volume=403&pages=335-338&publica
tion_year=2000&author=Elowitz%2CMB&author=Leibler%2CS)

  12. 12

Judd EM, Laub MT, McAdams HH . Toggles and oscillators: new genetic circuit
designs. _Bioessays_ 2000; **22**: 507‚Äì509.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3MXmslSiur8%253D)¬† [Artic
le](https://doi.org/10.1002%2F%28SICI%291521-1878%28200006%2922%3A6%3C507%3A
%3AAID-BIES3%3E3.0.CO%3B2-0)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scho
lar_lookup?&title=Toggles%20and%20oscillators%3A%20new%20genetic%20circuit%20d
esigns&journal=Bioessays&volume=22&pages=507-509&publication_year=2000&author=
Judd%2CEM&author=Laub%2CMT&author=McAdams%2CHH)

  13. 13

Edwards JS, Palsson BO . Robustness analysis of the _Escherichia coli_
metabolic network. _Biotechnol Prog_ 2000; **16**: 927‚Äì939.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXlsVShu70%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1021%2Fbp0000712)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://schol
ar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Robustness%20analysis%20of%20the%20Escheri
chia%20coli%20metabolic%20network&journal=Biotechnol%20Prog&volume=16&pages=92
7-939&publication_year=2000&author=Edwards%2CJS&author=Palsson%2CBO)

  14. 14

Jeong H, Tombor B, Albert R, Oltval ZN, Barabasi AL . The large-scale
organization of metabolic networks. _Nature_ 2000; **407**: 651‚Äì654.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXnsVOrsLs%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35036627)¬† [ Google
Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20large-scale%20o
rganization%20of%20metabolic%20networks&journal=Nature&volume=407&pages=651-65
4&publication_year=2000&author=Jeong%2CH&author=Tombor%2CB&author=Albert%2CR&a
uthor=Oltval%2CZN&author=Barabasi%2CAL)

  15. 15

McCabe ERB . Adrenal hypoplasia and aplasia. In: Scriver CR, Beaudet AL, Sly
WS, Valle D, Childs B, Vogelstein B, editors. _The metabolic and molecular
basis of inherited diseases_, 8th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001: 4263‚Äì4274.

[ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=The%20metabo
lic%20and%20molecular%20basis%20of%20inherited%20diseases&pages=4263-4274&publ
ication_year=2001&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  16. 16

Clipsham R, Zhang Y-H, Huang B-L, McCabe ERB . Genetic network identification
by high density, multiplexed reversed transcriptional (HD-MRT) analysis in
steroidogenic axis model cell lines. _Mol Genet Metab_ 2002; **77**: 159‚Äì178.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD38XntlSisLw%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS1096-7192%2802%2900119-1)¬† [ Google Schol
ar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Genetic%20network%20identi
fication%20by%20high%20density%2C%20multiplexed%20reversed%20transcriptional%2
0%28HD-MRT%29%20analysis%20in%20steroidogenic%20axis%20model%20cell%20lines&jo
urnal=Mol%20Genet%20Metab&volume=77&pages=159-178&publication_year=2002&author
=Clipsham%2CR&author=Zhang%2CY-H&author=Huang%2CB-L&author=McCabe%2CERB)

  17. 17

Dipple KM, McCabe ERB . Phenotypes of patients with ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian
disorders are complex traits: thresholds, modifiers and systems dynamics. _Am
J Hum Genet_ 2000; **66**: 1729‚Äì1735.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXntV2jtLc%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1086%2F302938)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://scholar.
google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Phenotypes%20of%20patients%20with%20%E2%80%9C
simple%E2%80%9D%20Mendelian%20disorders%20are%20complex%20traits%3A%20threshol
ds%2C%20modifiers%20and%20systems%20dynamics&journal=Am%20J%20Hum%20Genet&volu
me=66&pages=1729-1735&publication_year=2000&author=Dipple%2CKM&author=McCabe%2
CERB)

  18. 18

Dipple KM, McCabe ERB . Modifier genes convert ‚Äúsimple‚Äù Mendelian disorders to
complex traits. _Mol Genet Metab_ 2000; **71**: 43‚Äì50.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3cXms1yjtb4%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1006%2Fmgme.2000.3052)¬† [ Google Scholar](http://
scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Modifier%20genes%20convert%20%E2%80%9
Csimple%E2%80%9D%20Mendelian%20disorders%20to%20complex%20traits&journal=Mol%2
0Genet%20Metab&volume=71&pages=43-50&publication_year=2000&author=Dipple%2CKM&
author=McCabe%2CERB)

  19. 19

Beaudet A, Scriver C, Sly W, Valle D . Genetics, biochemistry and molecular
bases of variant human phenotypes. _In: Scriver CR, Beaudet AL, Sly WS, Valle
D, Childs B, Vogelstein B, editors_. _The metabolic and molecular basis of
inherited diseases_, 8th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001: 3‚Äì125.

[ Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=In%3A%20Scri
ver%20CR%2C%20Beaudet%20AL%2C%20Sly%20WS%2C%20Valle%20D%2C%20Childs%20B%2C%20V
ogelstein%20B%2C%20editors&pages=3-125&publication_year=2001&author=Beaudet%2C
A&author=Scriver%2CC&author=Sly%2CW&author=Valle%2CD)

  20. 20

Scriver CR, Waters PJ . Monogenic traits are not simple: lessons from
phenylketonuria. _Trends Genet_ 1999; **15**: 267‚Äì272.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK1MXksVyms7c%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0168-9525%2899%2901761-8)¬† [ Google Schol
ar](http://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Monogenic%20traits%20are%2
0not%20simple%3A%20lessons%20from%20phenylketonuria&journal=Trends%20Genet&vol
ume=15&pages=267-272&publication_year=1999&author=Scriver%2CCR&author=Waters%2
CPJ)

  21. 21

Gaston MH, Verter JI, Woods G, Pegelow C, Kelleher J, Presbury G, Zarkowsky H,
Vichinsky E, Iyer R, Lobel JS, Diamond S, Holbrook CT, Gill FM, Ritchey K,
Fallette JM . Prophylaxis with oral penicillin in children with sickle cell
anemia: a randomized trial. _N Engl J Med_ 1986; **314**: 1593‚Äì1599.

[CAS](/articles/cas-redirect/1%3ASTN%3A280%3ADyaL283jtVOhsA%253D%253D)
[Article](https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJM198606193142501)¬† [ Google Scholar](ht
tp://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?&title=Prophylaxis%20with%20oral%20peni
cillin%20in%20children%20with%20sickle%20cell%20anemia%3A%20a%20randomized%20t
rial&journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&volume=314&pages=1593-1599&publication_year=19
86&author=Gaston%2CMH&author=Verter%2CJI&author=Woods%2CG&author=Pegelow%2CC&a
uthor=Kelleher%2CJ&author=Presbury%2CG&author=Zarkowsky%2CH&author=Vichinsky%2
CE&author=Iyer%2CR&author=Lobel%2CJS&author=Diamond%2CS&author=Holbrook%2CCT&a
uthor=Gill%2CFM&author=Ritchey%2CK&author=Fallette%2CJM)

  22. 22

Wethers D . NIH Consensus Development Conference Statement on newborn
screening for sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies. 1987; 6.

[Download references](/articles/gim200275-references.ris)

## Author information

### Affiliations

  1. President, American College of Medical Genetics; Physician-in-Chief, Mattel Children's Hospital at UCLA; Professor and Executive Chair, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA; and Director, UCLA Center for Society, the Individual and Genetics

Edward R B Mccabe

  2. Physician-in-Chief, Mattel Children's Hospital at UCLA

Edward R B Mccabe

Authors

  1. Edward R B Mccabe

[View author publications](/search?author="Edward R B+Mccabe")

You can also search for this author in
[PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=search&term=Edward
R B+Mccabe)¬†[Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?as_q=&num=10&
btnG=Search+Scholar&as_epq=&as_oq=&as_eq=&as_occt=any&as_sauthors=%22Edward R
B+Mccabe%22&as_publication=&as_ylo=&as_yhi=&as_allsubj=all&hl=en)

### Corresponding author

Correspondence to Edward R B Mccabe.

## Additional information

The ACMG presidential address was presented March 14, 2002.

## Rights and permissions

[Reprints and Permissions](https://s100.copyright.com/AppDispatchServlet?title
=Translational%20genomics%20in%20medical%20genetics&author=Edward%20R%20B%20Mc
cabe&contentID=10.1097%2F00125817-200211000-00012&publication=1098-3600&public
ationDate=2002-11&publisherName=SpringerNature&orderBeanReset=true)

## About this article

### Cite this article

Mccabe, E. Translational genomics in medical genetics. _Genet Med_ **4,
**468‚Äì471 (2002). https://doi.org/10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012

[Download citation](/articles/gim200275.ris)

  * Issue Date: November 2002

  * DOI: <https://doi.org/10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012>

## Further reading

  * ###  [ Personalized medicine for individuals with Down syndrome ](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.07.008)

    * Linda L. McCabe
    *  & Edward R.B. McCabe

_Molecular Genetics and Metabolism_ (2011)

  * ###  [ Nanopediatrics: Enabling Personalized Medicine for Children ](https://doi.org/10.1203/PDR.0b013e3181d61ed2)

    * Edward R B McCabe

_Pediatric Research_ (2010)

  * ###  [ Genome-wide Testing: Genomic Medicine: Commentary on the article by Bar-Shira et al. on page 353 ](https://doi.org/10.1203/01.pdr.0000233116.85413.cd)

    * Sean A McGhee
    *  & Edward R B McCabe

_Pediatric Research_ (2006)

  * ###  [ GENETIC SCREENING: Carriers and Affected Individuals ](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.genom.5.061903.175941)

    * Linda L. McCabe
    *  & Edward R.B. McCabe

_Annual Review of Genomics and Human Genetics_ (2004)

[ Download PDF ](/articles/gim200275.pdf)

[ ![Advertisement](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad/ad?iu=/285/geneticsinmedi
cine.nature.com/article&sz=300x250&c=666788124&t=pos%3Dright%26type%3Darticle%
26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedic
ine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory Medicine)](//pubads.g.doubleclick.net/g
ampad/jump?iu=/285/geneticsinmedicine.nature.com/article&sz=300x250&c=66678812
4&t=pos%3Dright%26type%3Darticle%26artid%3Dgim200275%26doi%3D10.1097/00125817-
200211000-00012%26kwrd%3DBiomedicine, general,Human Genetics,Laboratory
Medicine)

## Explore our content

  * [ Current Issue ](/gim/current-issue)
  * [ Browse Issues ](/gim/browse-issues)
  * [ Browse Articles ](/gim/articles)
  * [ Browse Collections ](/gim/collections)
  * [Sign up for alerts ](https://www.nature.com/my-account/alerts/subscribe-journal?list-id=303)

## Journal information

  * [ About the Journal ](/gim/about)
  * [ About the Editors ](/gim/editors)
  * [ For Authors & Referees ](/gim/authors-and-referees)
  * [ Contact ](/gim/contact)
  * [ Podcasts ](/gim/podcast)
  * [ Press Releases ](/gim/press-releases)
  * [ About the Partner ](/gim/partner)
  * [ Subscribe ](/gim/subscribe)
  * [Submit manuscript ](https://www.editorialmanager.com/gim/default.aspx)

## Search

Article Search

Search

[ Advanced search ](/search/advanced)

### Quick links

  * [Explore articles by subject](/subjects)
  * [Find a job](/naturecareers)
  * [Guide to authors](/authors/index.html)
  * [Editorial policies](/authors/editorial_policies/)

Genetics in Medicine  ISSN 1530-0366 (online)

## nature.com sitemap

![Nature Research](/static/images/logos/nature research-
white-150.f4acf77e0c.svg)

  * [About us](https://www.nature.com/npg_/company_info/index.html)
  * [Press releases](https://www.nature.com/npg_/press_room/press_releases.html)
  * [Press office](https://press.nature.com/)
  * [Contact us](https://support.nature.com/support/home)
  * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/nature/)
  * [ ](https://twitter.com/nresearchnews?lang=en)
  * [ ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvCLdSgYdSTpWcOgEJgi-ng)

### Discover content

  * [Journals A-Z](https://www.nature.com/siteindex)
  * [Articles by subject](https://www.nature.com/subjects/)
  * [Nano](https://nano.nature.com/)
  * [Protocol Exchange](https://www.nature.com/protocolexchange/)
  * [Nature Index](https://www.natureindex.com/)

### Publish with us

  * [Guide to Authors](https://www.nature.com/authors/author_resources/index.html)
  * [Guide to Referees](https://www.nature.com/authors/peer_review/)
  * [Editorial policies](https://www.nature.com/authors/editorial_policies/)
  * [Open access](http://www.nature.com/openresearch/publishing-with-npg/)
  * [Reprints & permissions](https://www.nature.com/reprints/)

### Researcher services

  * [Research data](https://www.springernature.com/gp/authors/research-data)
  * [Language editing](https://authorservices.springernature.com/go/nr)
  * [Scientific editing](https://authorservices.springernature.com/scientific-editing/)
  * [Nature Masterclasses](https://masterclasses.nature.com/)
  * [Nature Research Academies](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/researcher-training/)

### Libraries & institutions

  * [Librarian service & tools](https://www.springernature.com/gp/librarians/tools-services)
  * [Librarian portal](https://www.springernature.com/gp/librarians/manage-your-account/librarianportal)
  * [Open research](http://www.nature.com/openresearch/about-open-access/information-for-institutions/)

### Advertising & partnerships

  * [Advertising](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/digital-advertising/)
  * [Partnerships & Services](https://partnerships.nature.com/)
  * [Media kits](https://partnerships.nature.com/media-kits/)
  * [Branded content](https://partnerships.nature.com/product/branded-content-native-advertising/)

### Career development

  * [Nature Careers](https://www.nature.com/naturecareers)
  * [Nature Conferences](https://www.nature.com/natureconferences/)
  * [Nature events](https://www.nature.com/natureevents/)

### Regional websites

  * [Nature China](http://www.naturechina.com)
  * [Nature India](https://www.nature.com/nindia)
  * [Nature Japan](https://www.natureasia.com/ja-jp/)
  * [Nature Korea](https://www.natureasia.com/ko-kr/)
  * [Nature Middle East](https://www.nature.com/nmiddleeast/)

### Legal & Privacy

  * [Privacy Policy](https://www.nature.com/info/privacy.html)
  * [Use of cookies](https://www.nature.com/info/cookies.html)
  * [Manage cookies/Do not sell my data](javascript:;)
  * [Legal notice](https://www.nature.com/info/legal_notice.html)
  * [Accessibility statement](https://www.nature.com/info/accessibility_statement.html)
  * [Terms & Conditions](https://www.nature.com/info/tandc.html)
  * [California Privacy Statement](https://www.springernature.com/ccpa)

![Springer Nature](/static/images/logos/sn-logo-white.ea63208b81.svg)

(C) 2020 Springer Nature Limited

![](https://verify.nature.com/verify/nature.png)
![](/platform/track/article/gim200275)

  *[DOI]: Digital Object Identifier
  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

Skip to main content

  * [AACR Publications](http://aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Blood Cancer Discovery](https://bloodcancerdiscov.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention](http://cebp.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Immunology Research](http://cancerimmunolres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Prevention Research](http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Research](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Clinical Cancer Research](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Research](http://mcr.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Therapeutics](http://mct.aacrjournals.org/)

![AACR logo](/sites/default/files/additional_assets/AACR_logo_130x45_gray.png)

  * [Register](/user/register)
  * [Log in](/user/login?destination=/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Log out](/user/logout?current=node/153269)
  * __[ My Cart](/cart)

Advertisement

## __Main menu

  * [Home](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
  * [About](/content/about-us)
    * [The Journal](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/about.xhtml)
    * [AACR Journals](http://www.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Subscriptions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
    * [Permissions and Reprints](http://aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
    * [Reviewing](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)
    * [CME](https://cme.aacrjournals.org/events/highwire/aacr/content/help.jsp?page=about)
  * [Articles](/content/by/year)
    * [OnlineFirst](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/recent)
    * [Current Issue](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/current)
    * [Past Issues](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/by/year)
    * [CCR Focus Archive](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
    * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)
    * [Collections](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/esmo-collections)
      * [Clinical Trials](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/clinical)
      * [Immunotherapy: Facts and Hopes](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/factshopes18)
      * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/editors-picks)
      * "[Best of" Collection](http://digitaleditions.sheridan.com/publication/frame.php?i=663585&p=&pn=&ver=html5)
  * [For Authors](/content/authors)
    * [Information for Authors](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/ifora)
    * [Author Services](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/author-services-center)
    * [Best of: Author Profiles](http://aacrjournals.org/best)
    * [Submit](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)
  * [Alerts](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
    * [Table of Contents](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup)
    * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup#edpicks)
    * [OnlineFirst](/alerts/toc/edit)
    * [Citation](/alerts/article/criteria?destination=alerts)
    * [Author/Keyword](/alerts/search/add?destination=alerts)
    * [My Alert Summary & Preferences](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
  * [News](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery News](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/sites/default/files/cd_news/CDNews.html?utm_source=CCRwebpage&utm_medium=dropdown1&utm_campaign=cdnews)
  * [Search](/search) More

Search for this keyword

__

[Advanced Search](/search)

  * [AACR Publications](http://aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Blood Cancer Discovery](https://bloodcancerdiscov.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention](http://cebp.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Immunology Research](http://cancerimmunolres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Prevention Research](http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Cancer Research](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Clinical Cancer Research](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Research](http://mcr.aacrjournals.org/)
    * [Molecular Cancer Therapeutics](http://mct.aacrjournals.org/)

## __User menu

  * [Register](/user/register)
  * [Log in](/user/login?destination=/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Log out](/user/logout?current=node/153269)
  * __[ My Cart](/cart)

## __Search

Search for this keyword

__

  * [Advanced search](/search)

![Clinical Cancer Research](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/defau
lt/files/ccr_title_88.jpg)

![Clinical Cancer Research](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/defau
lt/files/ccr_title_88.jpg)

  * [Home](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
  * [About](/content/about-us)
    * [The Journal](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/about.xhtml)
    * [AACR Journals](http://www.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Subscriptions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
    * [Permissions and Reprints](http://aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
    * [Reviewing](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)
    * [CME](https://cme.aacrjournals.org/events/highwire/aacr/content/help.jsp?page=about)
  * [Articles](/content/by/year)
    * [OnlineFirst](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/recent)
    * [Current Issue](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/current)
    * [Past Issues](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/by/year)
    * [CCR Focus Archive](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
    * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)
    * [Collections](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/esmo-collections)
      * [Clinical Trials](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/clinical)
      * [Immunotherapy: Facts and Hopes](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/factshopes18)
      * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/editors-picks)
      * "[Best of" Collection](http://digitaleditions.sheridan.com/publication/frame.php?i=663585&p=&pn=&ver=html5)
  * [For Authors](/content/authors)
    * [Information for Authors](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/ifora)
    * [Author Services](http://aacrjournals.org/content/authors/author-services-center)
    * [Best of: Author Profiles](http://aacrjournals.org/best)
    * [Submit](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)
  * [Alerts](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
    * [Table of Contents](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup)
    * [Editors' Picks](http://aacrjournals.org/content/alert-signup#edpicks)
    * [OnlineFirst](/alerts/toc/edit)
    * [Citation](/alerts/article/criteria?destination=alerts)
    * [Author/Keyword](/alerts/search/add?destination=alerts)
    * [My Alert Summary & Preferences](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/alerts)
  * [News](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org)
    * [Cancer Discovery News](http://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/sites/default/files/cd_news/CDNews.html?utm_source=CCRwebpage&utm_medium=dropdown1&utm_campaign=cdnews)
  * [Search](/search) More

Search for this keyword

__

[Advanced Search](/search)

CCR Focus

# Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Lucy R. Yates

1Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, United
Kingdom.

2Department of Clinical Oncology, Guys and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London,
United Kingdom.

  * [Find this author on Google Scholar](/lookup/google-scholar?link_type=googlescholar&gs_type=author&author%5B0%5D=Lucy%2BR.%2BYates%2B)
  * [Find this author on PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?access_num=Yates%20LR&link_type=AUTHORSEARCH)
  * [Search for this author on this site](/search/author1%3ALucy%2BR.%2BYates%2B)

Christine Desmedt

3Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Institut Jules Bordet,
Universit√© Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

  * [Find this author on Google Scholar](/lookup/google-scholar?link_type=googlescholar&gs_type=author&author%5B0%5D=Christine%2BDesmedt%2B)
  * [Find this author on PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?access_num=Desmedt%20C&link_type=AUTHORSEARCH)
  * [Search for this author on this site](/search/author1%3AChristine%2BDesmedt%2B)
  * For correspondence: [christine.desmedt@bordet.be](mailto:christine.desmedt@bordet.be)

**DOI:** 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548 Published June 2017

![](https://crossmark-
cdn.crossref.org/widget/v2.0/logos/CROSSMARK_Color_horizontal.svg)

  * [Article](/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Figures & Data](/content/23/11/2630.figures-only)
  * [Info & Metrics](/content/23/11/2630.article-info)
  * __[ PDF](/content/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

![Loading](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/contrib/pa
nels_ajax_tab/images/loading.gif)

## Abstract

The genomic revolution has fundamentally changed our perception of breast
cancer. It is now apparent from DNA-based massively parallel sequencing data
that at the genomic level, every breast cancer is unique and shaped by the
mutational processes to which it was exposed during its lifetime. More than 90
breast cancer driver genes have been identified as recurrently mutated, and
many occur at low frequency across the breast cancer population. Certain
cancer genes are associated with traditionally defined histologic subtypes,
but genomic intertumoral heterogeneity exists even between cancers that appear
the same under the microscope. Most breast cancers contain subclonal
populations, many of which harbor driver alterations, and subclonal structure
is typically remodeled over time, across metastasis and as a consequence of
treatment interventions. Genomics is deepening our understanding of breast
cancer biology, contributing to an accelerated phase of targeted drug
development and providing insights into resistance mechanisms. Genomics is
also providing tools necessary to deliver personalized cancer medicine, but a
number of challenges must still be addressed. _Clin Cancer Res; 23(11);
2630‚Äì9. ¬©2017 AACR_.

**See all articles in this _[CCR Focus](http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11#CCRFocus)_ section, ‚ÄúBreast Cancer Research: From Base Pairs to Populations.‚Äù**

## Introduction

Technical and analytic developments underpin major advances in our
understanding of breast cancer biology over the last two decades. The
application of gene expression arrays in the early 2000s led to a refined
molecular classification, the development of prognostic assays, and a better
characterization of the contribution of the tumor microenvironment (1, 2).
First steps toward translating molecularly defined breast cancer subsets came
from efforts using gene expression‚Äìbased signatures, which have led to
multiple commercially available and clinically useful assays in hormone
receptor‚Äìpositive breast cancer, and are continuing to be developed for
multiple clinical/translational applications today. Discussing RNA-based
assays is beyond the scope of the current review but was the topic of a recent
_CCR 20th Anniversary Commentary_ (2). The genomic revolution later saw the
emergence of commercially available massively parallel sequencing approaches
that permit the comprehensive profiling of an entire cancer's genome, all
coding genes (exome), or a selection of genes (targeted sequencing). DNA
sequencing technologies offer the potential to deliver personalized medicine
by matching appropriate targeted therapeutics with unique molecular
aberrations within an individual's cancer. Furthermore, massively parallel
sequencing can be used to identify biomarkers associated with response to
experimental targeted therapies, both in clinical trials and _in vitro_.

Here we consider five practical applications of the genomic revolution,
summarizing in each case what we have learned thus far and considering the
challenges that remain for future endeavors (Fig. 1). Key messages include the
following: (i) the driver landscape of breast cancer includes many rare cancer
genes and an unexpected level of inter- and intratumoral driver mutation
heterogeneity; (ii) understanding the mutational processes operating
throughout a cancer's lifetime may identify therapeutic vulnerabilities; (iii)
many genomic features align with traditional molecular and histologic subtypes
that can aid classification; (iv) cancers demonstrate subclonal
diversification that may underlie primary and acquired treatment resistance;
and (v) a range of patterns of metastatic dissemination are observed
reflecting clonal evolution.

![Figure 1.](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAA
BAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Figure 1.](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clin
canres/23/11/2630/F1.medium.gif)

  * [Download figure](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F1.large.jpg?download=true)
  * [Open in new tab](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F1.large.jpg)
  * [Download powerpoint](/highwire/powerpoint/153358)

Figure 1.

Applications of the genomic revolution in breast cancer. Each of the five
segments represents an application of the genomic revolution, main findings
are pictured within the inner, white panel, and outstanding challenges are
summarized in the outer, blue panel. Histologic subtypes: invasive ductal
cancer (IDC) and invasive lobular cancer (ILC).

## Application 1: Characterizing the Driver Landscape of Breast Cancer

To date, almost 100 high-probability breast cancer driver genes have been
identified through the application of computational approaches to massively
parallel sequence data generated from more than 4,000 primary breast cancer
samples (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 3‚Äì18). Cancer genes have been
identified based upon somatic mutation recurrence rates that exceed
expectation after taking into account features such as background mutation
rate and spectrum, nucleotide context, enrichment in phosphorylation-specific
regions or tertiary protein structures, and the ratio of nonsynonymous to
synonymous mutations (19‚Äì24). Various alternative methodologies exist such as
those that adopt subnetwork analyses to identify groups of potential cancer
genes by incorporating pathway or gene interaction information, and these may
be particularly useful for identifying very rare driver genes (25‚Äì28).

Saturation analyses predict that based on the number of samples now sequenced,
most cancer genes implicated in 2% or more breast cancers will have been
identified (29). However, we expect that many more low-frequency cancer genes
remain to be discovered, because there is emerging evidence, as discussed
below, that metastatic, pretreated, male, and special histopathologic subtypes
of cancers are genomically distinct from the ‚Äúgeneral‚Äù breast cancer
population (Tables 1 and 2; Supplementary Table S1; refs. 6, 10‚Äì18, 30‚Äì37).
Rare ‚Äúpopulations‚Äù are often the most clinically challenging to treat, and
further focused driver discovery exercises in these groups are warranted.

View this table:

  * View inline
  * [View popup](/highwire/markup/153316/expansion?width=1000&height=500&iframe=true&postprocessors=highwire_tables%2Chighwire_reclass%2Chighwire_figures%2Chighwire_math%2Chighwire_inline_linked_media%2Chighwire_embed)

Table 1.

Overview of the genomic findings and distribution of the PAM50 intrinsic
molecular subtypes in the general breast cancer population, according to the
estrogen receptor (ER) status

View this table:

  * View inline
  * [View popup](/highwire/markup/153413/expansion?width=1000&height=500&iframe=true&postprocessors=highwire_tables%2Chighwire_reclass%2Chighwire_figures%2Chighwire_math%2Chighwire_inline_linked_media%2Chighwire_embed)

Table 2.

Key genomic findings in rare histologic subtypes (massively parallel
sequencing)

Driver alterations refer to events that are predicted to inactivate tumor
suppressor genes or activate oncogenes‚Äîcommon mechanisms in the former include
homozygous deletions, truncating point mutations, or disrupting rearrangements
and in the latter, focal amplifications and activating missense mutations,
typically within mutational hotspots. A recent genome-wide analysis of 560
breast cancers (9) reported that the average cancer contains three such driver
alterations (range = 0‚Äì14) and, consistent with other series, confirmed that
only a handful of cancer genes are mutated in more than 10% of breast cancers
(3‚Äì10). The most frequently implicated cancer genes (and their frequencies)
across the 560 breast cancers are _TP53_ (41%), _PIK3CA_ (30%), _MYC_ (20%),
_PTEN_ (16%), _CCND1_ (16%), _ERBB2_ (13%), _FGFR1_ (11%), and _GATA3_ (10%;
ref. 9). Because most cancer genes are mutated in less than 5% of cancers,
considerable interpatient heterogeneity exists (4, 7). By example, whole-exome
sequencing of 100 breast cancers identified driver point mutations and copy
number changes in 40 genes in 73 combinations, indicating that at the driver
gene level, most primary breast cancers are distinct (4). The wide range of
possible driver combinations within an individual cancer will demand
systematic approaches to facilitate target prioritization and guide
combination therapy approaches if we reach a position where a large number of
effective therapeutic targets are available.

The majority of driver events detected in a primary tumor are clonal, being
present in all tumor cells. However, subclones are common, and these can
harbor driver events that alter some of the most common and most frequently
clonal breast cancer genes including _TP53, MYC, PIK3CA_, and _HER2_, in
addition to rarer cancer genes such as _FGFR2_ and _RUNX1_ (3, 35, 36, 38,
39). In a multiregion sampling study, we identified subclonal, potentially
targetable alterations in 13 of 50 primary breast cancers and demonstrated
that subclones can be spatially separated, posing a challenge to
representative sampling (36). In a quarter of these cases, we identified
parallel evolution, with the same cancer gene mutated multiple times in
different subclones in the same tumor, indicating that particular subclonal
aberrations within an individual cancer may be under strong selection (36).
Highlighting the clinical relevance of such a finding, in one case of
metastatic breast cancer, parallel genetic loss of _PTEN_ in multiple
metastatic sites was documented after treatment with the PI(3)KŒ± inhibitor
BYL719 (40). In this case, the emergence of a convergent PTEN-null
treatment‚Äìresistant phenotype provided strong rationale for targeting the
subclonal alterations; however, in general, it is not yet clear when and if we
should target subclonal alterations or if a greater benefit will be derived
from targeting clonal alterations that are present in every cancer cell.

## Challenges

Determining the range of driver events operating within an individual breast
cancer depends, to some extent, on the sequencing technology employed (Fig.
2). Targeted approaches can provide (at lower cost than whole-genome
sequencing) high-depth sequence coverage, high sensitivity, and accurate
quantification of point mutations, overcoming, to some extent, technical
challenges such as low tumor cellularity and driver mutation subclonality
(ref. 41; Fig. 2). However, targeted approaches make prior assumptions about
the range of relevant cancer genes. Furthermore, breast cancers are
characterized by frequent and often complex structural variation, and the
precise nature of structural variation can only be captured using genome-wide
sequencing (Fig. 2; ref. 42). For example, a recent study revealed that
rearrangement breakpoints disrupt tumor suppressor gene footprints more
frequently than expected, contributing to the recessive cancer gene landscape,
with the most frequently affected genes being _PTEN, RB1_, and _ARID1B_ in 7%,
5%, and 4% of the cases, respectively (9). The same study revealed that
recurrent fusion genes and noncoding driver mutations are uncommon in primary
breast cancers (9). The full contribution of structural variation to the
driver landscape of breast cancers remains to be determined. Selecting the
most appropriate technology for incorporation in clinico-genomic trials is of
paramount importance.

![Figure 2.](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAA
BAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Figure 2.](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clin
canres/23/11/2630/F2.medium.gif)

  * [Download figure](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F2.large.jpg?download=true)
  * [Open in new tab](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/clincanres/23/11/2630/F2.large.jpg)
  * [Download powerpoint](/highwire/powerpoint/153430)

Figure 2.

Insights into breast cancer genomes by applying different massively parallel
sequencing (MPS) approaches. Comparison of whole-genome sequencing (WGS),
whole-exome sequencing (WES), and targeted sequencing (TS) as approaches for
exploring the breast cancer genome. Two typical but contrasting examples of
breast cancer genomes are presented. WGS reveals all genomic mutations types
as presented within the two Circos plots. Colored dots in the outer ring
represent base substitutions (Subs), copy number changes are reported in the
second ring, whereas the colored lines in the center represent structural
variant (SV), otherwise known as rearrangements. WES and TS identify only a
fraction of mutations and do not necessarily reflect the stark differences
between the two genomic landscapes pictured. The large numbers of mutations
identified by WGS permit mutation signature detection. WES identifies
typically 10 to 300 mutations, and signature analysis is unreliable at the
lower end of this range. Notably, the homologous recombination deficiency
(HRD) substitution signature is relatively subtle, and confident detection
usually demands several hundred mutations. Although not represented in this
figure, the high depth afforded by TS offers the additional advantage of
exploring subclonality by comparing different mutations' variant allele
fractions within a tumor, providing accurate copy number can be determined.
Note the reported numbers are estimates only for illustration purposes. NA,
not available.

Defining the targetable landscape of breast cancer remains in its infancy.
High-throughput functional validation approaches are indicated to determine
the significance of potential cancer genes and driver mutations (43, 44).
Importantly, the clinical viability of even some of the most common cancer
genes (present in more than 10% of cancers) as therapeutic targets remains as
yet unproven, with only _ERBB2_ and _PIK3CA_ (45) associated with objective
responses to targeted therapies and only the former demonstrating validated
and independent prognostic and predictive value (46). _TP53, GATA3_, and _MYC_
have diverse transcriptional activities, and attempts to target them both
directly and indirectly have proved difficult for various reasons, including
lack of specificity and efficiency (47‚Äì51). These targets remain an intense
area of research. For example, clinical trials assessing the activity of PIM
kinase inhibitors in _MYC_-amplified triple-negative breast cancers are now
keenly awaited following promising preclinical work that identified a
targetable synthetic lethal interaction between _PIM1_ and _MYC_ (52).

It is important to consider that the presence of an apparent target does not
necessarily predict for response. Recent phase III studies confirmed a
survival advantage associated with the use of mTOR inhibitors (53) and CDK4/6
inhibitors (54) in advanced estrogen receptor (ER)‚Äìpositive breast cancers;
however, to date, biomarkers to predict response to these agents have not been
identified. In the PALOMA 1 trial, _CCND1_ amplifications or loss of p16
failed to predict for a response to the CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib (55). In
a retrospective analysis of the BOLERO-2 trial, progression-free survival
benefit was observed in association with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus
irrespective of the presence or absence of genomic alterations within _PIK3CA,
CCND1_, and _FGFR1_ (56). However, the extent of benefit from everolimus
varied according to the exon specific mutation (exon 20 versus exon 9),
indicating that the definition of a target may be more nuanced than initially
appreciated.

Overcoming the significant challenges of defining and ultimately targeting the
driver landscape of breast cancer will demand large-scale, international,
novel clinico-genomic screening and clinical trial strategies, as has been
discussed comprehensively elsewhere (57). It is also clear that, since many
driver alterations are ultarare in breast cancer, studies from single cases or
small case series will also be extremely valuable, particularly for exploring
extreme response or therapeutic resistance (58).

## Application 2: Dynamic Mutational Processes and Repair Deficiencies

Whole-genome sequencing identifies thousands of mutations within each cancer,
and although the majority of them are passenger events, the patterns that they
form, termed ‚Äúmutational signatures,‚Äù can reveal the mutational processes that
shaped that cancer's evolution (59). A recent analysis of 560 breast cancer
whole genomes identified 20 distinct mutational signatures (9). Typically,
multiple mutational processes are identified within each individual breast
cancer, and their relative contributions may vary over time (36, 60).

## Challenges

A comprehensive overview of mutational processes in breast cancer is presented
in another article in this _CCR Focus_ section (61). In the context of
‚Äúpractical applications,‚Äù the fundamental principle is that understanding the
processes that generate mutational diversity, the substrate of natural
selection, could ultimately result in strategies to oppose cancer development
and progression (62). However, for most mutational signatures, both etiology
and direct clinical utility are at this time unclear. At present, the mutation
signatures with the greatest potential clinical benefit are those that
identify deficiencies in the homologous recombination repair pathway and may
predict for sensitivity to platinum salt chemotherapies and PARP inhibitors
(63‚Äì68). Such signatures could extend the number of patients for whom such
agents may confer benefit, beyond those with germline or somatic mutations or
promoter methylation within _BRCA1/2_ and other _BRCA_-related genes (9, 69,
70), and has been used to confirm that an ER-positive tumor arising in a
_BRCA1_ carrier is related to the germline lesion rather than being a sporadic
cancer (71).

## Application 3: Supporting Molecular and Histologic Classification of Breast
Cancers

Despite considerable intertumoral heterogeneity, certain genomic patterns
align with the molecular and histologic subtypes. For example, luminal-like
/ER-positive breast cancers typically harbor mutations in _PIK3CA, GATA3_, or
_MAP3K1_ (6‚Äì8). The most commonly mutated cancer gene in basal-like/triple-
negative breast cancers is _TP53_, and this usually contains truncating
(frameshift or nonsense) mutations (72). In contrast, when _TP53_ mutations
occur in luminal-like cancers, they are usually missense mutations (8, 10,
73). Characteristic genomic changes also underlie histologic subtypes.
Recently, several consortia have genomically characterized more than 1,225
invasive lobular breast cancers (6, 10, 13, 17, 18). Lobular tumors typically
express ER and lack _HER2_ amplification, and represent the second most
frequent histologic subtype, accounting for up to 15% of all invasive breast
carcinomas (74). Lobular tumors display a distinct mutational pattern compared
with their ER-positive/HER2-negative ductal counterparts, including a higher
frequency of _CDH1_ and _PTEN_ loss and _AKT1, ERBB2, ERBB3_, and _TBX3_
mutations (6, 10, 13, 17). Furthermore, ER-positive tumors of lobular and
ductal type have a strong tendency toward _FOXA1_ or _GATA3_ mutations,
respectively, indicating that distinct genomic mechanisms of ER activation may
exist in these distinct pathologies (6, 17, 75). Distinct genomic patterns are
also characteristic of rare tumor types, including adenoid cystic, apocrine,
medullary, mucinous, metaplastic, micropapillary, and neuroendocrine tumors,
and are detailed in Table 1 and Supplementary Table S1 (10‚Äì12, 15, 16, 18, 32,
33, 76).

## Challenges

We continue to extrapolate from global breast cancer populations to make
clinical treatment decisions for special histologic subtypes. Now, there is
growing evidence of molecular differences between these subtypes. We should,
therefore, acknowledge both molecular and histologic subtypes as relevant
pathologic covariates in future clinical and translational research. In
addition, because certain potential therapeutic targets are enriched in some
subtypes, such as _ERBB2_ and _ERBB3_ mutations in lobular carcinomas, one
could imagine that conventional pathology could be used to enhance mutational
screening for clinical trial enrollment.

## Application 4: Defining the Genomic Basis of Metastasis

Clinically overt metastasis to distant organs is currently incurable. The most
informative sequencing approaches exploring this fatal transition compare
primary tumor and metastatic deposits from the same individual (Supplementary
Table S1). Studies focused on coding mutations reveal that most of the driver
events within the primary tumor are shared with associated metastatic deposits
(77‚Äì80). This indicates that the primary tumor may be a good surrogate for the
relapse-seeding clone, which is the target for adjuvant therapies that have
the potential to improve cancer cure rates (79, 80). For example, in a study
of single metastatic deposits from 33 individuals, 87% of driver mutations and
86% of copy number aberrations were also detected in the primary tumor (79). A
recent single-cell sequencing study of disseminated tumor cells supported this
linear model of late dissemination from the primary tumor (81). Metastatic
deposits generally harbor additional private mutations, often including known
driver mutations, reflecting ongoing subclonal diversification after
dissemination (36, 77‚Äì80, 82).

A handful of published studies have started to unravel the genomic basis of
breast cancer progression and define the temporal ordering of mutations
through the analysis of the primary tumor and multiple metastatic deposits
acquired during ‚Äúrapid‚Äù autopsy (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 40, 77‚Äì80,
82‚Äì84). In this context, a recent survey conducted in Australia to evaluate
patients' attitudes toward rapid autopsy and tissue donation revealed that 87%
were willing to donate tissue at death (85). So far, multiple tumor deposits
from a total of 17 breast cancer patients who underwent autopsy have been
investigated at the mutational and copy number level (40, 80, 83, 84).
Although each patient reported in these studies has her own history of
treatment and disease evolution, several messages emerge. First, given the
observed primary/metastasis and intermetastasis genomic heterogeneity, there
is no single tumor sample that recapitulates the complete disease, that is,
all the genomic alterations present in all samples from the patient (40, 80,
82‚Äì84). Second, both linear and parallel evolution from the primary tumor are
observed (Fig. 1; refs. 80, 83, 84). In some patients, there is only one
successful seeding event that gives rise to a so-called metastatic precursor
that then seeds the other metastases, possibly in a cascading manner (Fig. 1).
In other patients, multiple successful seeding events arise from the primary
tumor. Finally, evidence is accumulating that metastatic cross-seeding occurs
between established metastases (83, 84).

## Challenges

A potential limitation of the studies that investigate metastasis using a
targeted sequencing approach is that the cancer genes present in these panels
were derived almost exclusively from the study of treatment-na√Øve primary
tumors and, consequently, may fail to identify genes enriched or specific to
metastatic, relapsed, or pretreated cancers. Some preliminary evidence from
metastatic tumors suggests indeed that different drivers may be associated
with metastasis, and that these are drawn from an even wider range of cancer
genes than in primary tumors (Supplementary Table S1; refs. 30, 34, 79, 86).
It is conceivable that some genes only act as drivers in nuanced situations,
for example, in resisting a specific anticancer therapy, and in specific
cancer subtypes, so studies should be powered to identify rare resistance
mutations, a theme that will be explored in further detail later in this
review (34, 87‚Äì89).

Extensive work remains within this field to determine when and what driver
mutations are most relevant to the application of personalized medicine.
Exhaustive sampling of all metastatic deposits is not practical, so if
metastasis-specific mutations are clinically important, representative
sampling strategies need to be developed. Options include sampling areas of
progressive disease after treatment interventions, particularly when a mixed
response is seen, or alternatively, using ‚Äúliquid biopsies‚Äù (refs. 90‚Äì92;
Supplementary Table S1). In one study, sequencing of circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) successfully identified changes in the levels of subclonal mutations
as the relevant metastatic sites responded or progressed, providing proof of
principle for the role of a liquid biopsy to monitor treatment response (90).
Such an approach can also use ctDNA to predict minimal residual disease and
relapse, potentially extending the window of opportunity for applying adjuvant
therapies to further improve cancer cure rates (93).

## Application 5: Identifying Genomic Mechanisms of Resistance to Treatment

Changes in subclonal structure have been demonstrated across treatment
interventions using cytotoxic and endocrine therapy and targeted therapies
(35‚Äì37, 40, 94). Several genomic mechanisms of resistance to various therapies
have recently been uncovered, with mutations in _ESR1_, the gene encoding the
ER, being the most described and studied in the context of endocrine
resistance (34, 87, 95‚Äì98). Mutations cluster in the ligand-binding domain of
_ESR1_ and activate ER in the absence of the estrogen ligand. These mutations
have been detected almost exclusively in the context of prior endocrine
therapy, typically with aromatase inhibitors, and more frequently where
sensitivity to prior endocrine therapy was observed (98), suggesting that
these mutations are associated with acquired, but not primary, endocrine
resistance. A recent large-scale initiative, the Metastatic Breast Cancer
Project, characterized over 140 metastatic biopsies from endocrine
therapy‚Äìtreated patients and identified several acquired mutations, in
addition to _ESR1_, that may be involved in endocrine resistance, including
_AKT1, ERBB2, KRAS_, and _RB1_ alterations (99). There is also preliminary
evidence from cell-line and patient-derived xenograft models that
CDK4/6-inhibitor resistance may be mediated by loss of _RB1_ or amplification
of _CCNE1_ or _CDK6_ (100, 101).

Treatment resistance might be complicated by heterogeneity, for example,
multiple metastatic deposits from an individual may exhibit parallel evolution
of genomic resistance, whereas other metastases may not have any genomic mark
of resistance, potentially explaining the heterogeneous response to treatment
observed in the clinic (40, 83, 96‚Äì98, 102).

## Challenges

Interrogating ctDNA represents an attractive option for identifying multiple
mechanisms of resistance in different metastases. This is the strategy adopted
by the recent UK plasmaMATCH trial ([ISRCTN16945804](/external-
ref?link_type=ISRCTN&access_num=ISRCTN16945804)), a primary aim of which is to
determine whether plasma-derived ctDNA is an acceptable alternative to tumor
biopsies for mutation identification in metastatic breast cancer. A secondary
aim is to determine whether there is a clinical benefit from therapeutic
targeting of mutations identified in ctDNA. However, open questions remain
regarding the contribution of tumor deposits to ctDNA. This contribution could
be dependent on the metastatic organ, cancer proliferation rate, histology,
size of the metastasis, and response to therapy. For instance, it has been
demonstrated that brain metastases do not or poorly contribute to ctDNA in
plasma and that ctDNA from cerebrospinal fluid would offer a better
representation of the genomic alterations of brain metastases (103).

It is also important to perform comprehensive assessment of the various
pathways activated within an individual cancer rather than seeking a single
mutation in isolation (104). For example, only a fraction of patients
receiving selective PI3KŒ± inhibitors respond, and nonresponders tend to
demonstrate an increase in ER-dependent transcription that can be overcome in
some cases by combining the PI3KŒ± inhibitor with an anti-estrogen such as
tamoxifen or fulvestrant (105).

## Conclusions and Perspective

Although the genomic revolution has profoundly broadened our understanding of
the number and nature of somatic alterations within breast cancer genomes, the
clinical benefit of these discoveries remains modest. The feasibility of DNA
sequencing to direct the management of metastatic breast cancer through a
personalized cancer medicine approach has been examined in two prospective
molecular screening studies: SAFIR01/UNICANCER and MOSCATO, in the years 2011
to 2012 (106, 107). The two studies included 423 and 129 patients, and
identified potentially targetable alterations in 40% and 46% of patients with
the ability to personalize therapy in 13% and 23% of cases, respectively. Of
the patients who received targeted therapy, 9% and 20% had a partial response
and 21% and 56% had stable disease, respectively. Therefore, 3% and 15% of
patients originally screened in these two studies derived clinical benefit
from a targeted therapy, but in the absence of a control arm, we cannot infer
if the benefit exceeded that of standard of care. It is worth noting that the
SHIVA trial, which randomized 293 patients with potentially targetable
alterations to molecularly targeted versus standard therapy and found no
improvement in outcome but higher toxicity, involved last-generation targeted
agents (108). The effect of a personalized cancer medicine approach on
survival or, indeed, any other outcome remains to be determined within
randomized trials using validated biomarkers and modern targeted drugs.

Although this review has focused on genomic sequence data, it is clear that
tackling breast cancer, a complex set of diseases, will require integrated
assessment of a wide range of data types, including pathologic
characterization (such as histologic subtyping and assessment of the cellular
composition), transcriptomics, epigenetics, and proteomics, in addition to
genomics (6, 10, 109).

Most large driver discovery studies published to date include primary,
treatment-na√Øve cancers (Supplementary Table S1), and around 80% of these are
likely to have been cured using existing treatment strategies. Moving forward,
focus should be placed on understanding the mechanisms of both primary and
acquired treatment resistance and the genomics of metastasis that is almost
universally fatal. This should include using genomics to identify primary
breast cancers most at risk of relapse and to characterize disseminated tumor
cells that are capable of metastasis formation.

We believe that these goals can be achieved through the joint results from
many large-scale, prospective initiatives that aim to better characterize
metastases and link molecular findings with meticulously annotated clinical
and treatment information. These initiatives include the AURORA program, the
Metastatic Breast Cancer Project (<https://www.mbcproject.org/users/new>), the
UK plasmaMATCH ([ISRCTN16945804](/external-
ref?link_type=ISRCTN&access_num=ISRCTN16945804)), as well as the various rapid
autopsy programs (99, 110, 111). However, given the extensive intertumoral
heterogeneity of breast cancer, we must not dismiss the power of ‚Äún _of 1_‚Äù
studies and small case series that could deliver key insights into ultrarare
alterations and associated treatment resistance and response.

A large amount of genomic data from several thousand breast cancers has
already been generated, and further value can almost certainly be extracted
from this. For example, a combined analysis, although challenging on account
of the heterogeneity of the datasets, would have much higher power to detect
rare mutations than any individual study to date. Supporting such a
collaborative approach is the AACR Project Genomics Evidence Neoplasia
Information Exchange (GENIE; <http://www.aacr.org/Research/Research/Pages
/aacr-project-genie.aspx#.WH6TMnCFNOC>), an international data-sharing project
that aims to collate genomic and clinical data from tens of thousands of
patients in multiple institutions.

Great enthusiasm accompanied the initial years of the genomic revolution as a
flood of novel insights into the breast cancer genome were presented in quick
succession. We now have a clearer idea not only of the potential clinical
applications of genomics but also of the scale and nature of the challenges
that must be surmounted to bring maximum benefit to breast cancer patients. It
is clear that delivering personalized breast cancer treatments to all patients
in the future will only be possible if we focus on collaborative and
integrative approaches now.

## Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest

No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.

## Grant Support

This work was supported by a grant from Les Amis de Bordet (to C. Desmedt).

## Footnotes

  * **Note:** Supplementary data for this article are available at Clinical Cancer Research Online (http://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/).

  * Received January 20, 2017.
  * Revision received March 6, 2017.
  * Accepted April 6, 2017.
  * ¬©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

## References

  1. 1.‚Üµ

    1. Weigelt B, 
    2. Pusztai L, 
    3. Ashworth A, 
    4. Reis-Filho JS
. Challenges translating breast cancer gene signatures into the clinic. Nat
Rev Clin Oncol 2011;9:58‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D9%26rft.spage%253D58%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinonc.
2011.125%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21878891%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft
_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ3
9.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2011.125&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=21878891&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  2. 2.‚Üµ

    1. Gingras I, 
    2. Desmedt C, 
    3. Ignatiadis M, 
    4. Sotiriou C
. CCR 20th Anniversary Commentary: gene-expression signature in breast
cancer‚Äìwhere did it start and where are we now? Clin Cancer Res
2015;21:4743‚Äì6.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClinical%2BCancer%2BResearch%26rft.st
itle%253DClin.%2BCancer%2BRes.%26rft.aulast%253DGingras%26rft.auinit1%253DI.%2
6rft.volume%253D21%26rft.issue%253D21%26rft.spage%253D4743%26rft.epage%253D474
6%26rft.atitle%253DCCR%2B20th%2BAnniversary%2BCommentary%253A%2BGene-
Expression%2BSignature%2Bin%2BBreast%2BCancer--Where%2BDid%2BIt%2BStart%2Band%
2BWhere%2BAre%2BWe%2BNow%253F%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0
432.CCR-14-3127%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26527804%26rft.genre%253Darticl
e%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver
%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzO
jQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R
5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToic
mVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIxLzIxLzQ3NDMiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTE
vMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  3. 3.‚Üµ

    1. Shah SP, 
    2. Roth A, 
    3. Goya R, 
    4. Oloumi A, 
    5. Ha G, 
    6. Zhao Y, 
    7. et al.
The clonal and mutational evolution spectrum of primary triple-negative breast
cancers. Nature 2012;486:395‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DShah%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%2BP.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%253
D7403%26rft.spage%253D395%26rft.epage%253D399%26rft.atitle%253DThe%2Bclonal%2B
and%2Bmutational%2Bevolution%2Bspectrum%2Bof%2Bprimary%2Btriple-negative%2Bbre
ast%2Bcancers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature10933%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22495314%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature10933&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22495314&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  4. 4.‚Üµ

    1. Stephens PJ, 
    2. Tarpey PS, 
    3. Davies H, 
    4. Van Loo P, 
    5. Greenman C, 
    6. Wedge DC, 
    7. et al.
The landscape of cancer genes and mutational processes in breast cancer.
Nature 2012;486:400‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DStephens%26rft.auinit1%253DP.%2BJ.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue
%253D7403%26rft.spage%253D400%26rft.epage%253D404%26rft.atitle%253DThe%2Blands
cape%2Bof%2Bcancer%2Bgenes%2Band%2Bmutational%2Bprocesses%2Bin%2Bbreast%2Bcanc
er.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11017%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Apmid%252F22722201%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252
Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.8
8-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRe
f](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11017&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722201&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  5. 5.‚Üµ

    1. Banerji S, 
    2. Cibulskis K, 
    3. Rangel-Escareno C, 
    4. Brown KK, 
    5. Carter SL, 
    6. Frederick AM, 
    7. et al.
Sequence analysis of mutations and translocations across breast cancer
subtypes. Nature 2012;486:405‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DBanerji%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%253D7
403%26rft.spage%253D405%26rft.epage%253D409%26rft.atitle%253DSequence%2Banalys
is%2Bof%2Bmutations%2Band%2Btranslocations%2Bacross%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bsubtyp
es.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11154%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Apmid%252F22722202%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252
Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.8
8-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRe
f](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11154&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722202&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  6. 6.‚Üµ

    1. Ciriello G, 
    2. Gatza ML, 
    3. Beck AH, 
    4. Wilkerson MD, 
    5. Rhie SK, 
    6. Pastore A, 
    7. et al.
Comprehensive molecular portraits of invasive lobular breast cancer. Cell
2015;163:506‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%26rft.volume%253D163%26rft.spage
%253D506%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.cell.2015.09.033%26rft_id
%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26451490%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo
%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
ctx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.cell.2015.09.033&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26451490&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  7. 7.‚Üµ

    1. Ellis MJ, 
    2. Ding L, 
    3. Shen D, 
    4. Luo J, 
    5. Suman VJ, 
    6. Wallis JW, 
    7. et al.
Whole-genome analysis informs breast cancer response to aromatase inhibition.
Nature 2012;486:353‚Äì60.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DEllis%26rft.auinit1%253DM.%2BJ.%26rft.volume%253D486%26rft.issue%25
3D7403%26rft.spage%253D353%26rft.epage%253D360%26rft.atitle%253DWhole-genome%2
Banalysis%2Binforms%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bresponse%2Bto%2Baromatase%2Binhibition
.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11143%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253A
pmid%252F22722193%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ff
mt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef]
(/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11143&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22722193&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  8. 8.‚Üµ

The Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular portraits of human
breast tumours. Nature 2012;490:61‚Äì70.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DKoboldt%26rft.auinit1%253DD.%2BC.%26rft.volume%253D490%26rft.issue%
253D7418%26rft.spage%253D61%26rft.epage%253D70%26rft.atitle%253DComprehensive%
2Bmolecular%2Bportraits%2Bof%2Bhuman%2Bbreast%2Btumours.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11412%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23000897%26rft
.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
journal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253D
info%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11412&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23000897&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  9. 9.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Davies H, 
    3. Staaf J, 
    4. Ramakrishna M, 
    5. Glodzik D, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
Landscape of somatic mutations in 560 breast cancer whole-genome sequences.
Nature 2016;534:47‚Äì54.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D534%26rft.spa
ge%253D47%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature17676%26rft_id%253Di
nfo%253Apmid%252F27135926%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Ao
fi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[C
rossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature17676&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27135926&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  10. 10.‚Üµ

    1. Pereira B, 
    2. Chin SF, 
    3. Rueda OM, 
    4. Vollan HK, 
    5. Provenzano E, 
    6. Bardwell HA, 
    7. et al.
The somatic mutation profiles of 2,433 breast cancers refines their genomic
and transcriptomic landscapes. Nat Commun 2016;7:11479.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D11479%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  11. 11.‚Üµ

    1. Ross JS, 
    2. Badve S, 
    3. Wang K, 
    4. Sheehan CE, 
    5. Boguniewicz AB, 
    6. Otto GA, 
    7. et al.
Genomic profiling of advanced-stage, metaplastic breast carcinoma by next-
generation sequencing reveals frequent, targetable genomic abnormalities and
potential new treatment options. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2015;139:642‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DArch%2BPathol%2BLab%2BMed%26rft.volum
e%253D139%26rft.spage%253D642%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.5858%252Farpa.2
014-0200-OA%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25927147%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26
rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.5858/arpa.2014-0200-OA&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25927147&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  12. 12.‚Üµ

    1. Vranic S, 
    2. Marchio C, 
    3. Castellano I, 
    4. Botta C, 
    5. Scalzo MS, 
    6. Bender RP, 
    7. et al.
Immunohistochemical and molecular profiling of histologically defined apocrine
carcinomas of the breast. Hum Pathol 2015;46:1350‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHum%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D46%26rf
t.spage%253D1350%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  13. 13.‚Üµ

    1. Michaut M, 
    2. Chin SF, 
    3. Majewski I, 
    4. Severson TM, 
    5. Bismeijer T, 
    6. de Koning L, 
    7. et al.
Integration of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic data identifies two
biologically distinct subtypes of invasive lobular breast cancer. Sci Rep
2016;6:18517.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DSci%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft.sp
age%253D18517%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fsrep18517%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26729235%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/srep18517&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?a
ccess_num=26729235&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  14. 14.‚Üµ

    1. Piscuoglio S, 
    2. Ng CK, 
    3. Murray MP, 
    4. Guerini-Rocco E, 
    5. Martelotto LG, 
    6. Geyer FC, 
    7. et al.
The genomic landscape of male breast cancers. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:4045‚Äì56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-15-2840%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
26960396%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIyLzE2LzQwNDUiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  15. 15.‚Üµ

    1. Weisman PS, 
    2. Ng CK, 
    3. Brogi E, 
    4. Eisenberg RE, 
    5. Won HH, 
    6. Piscuoglio S, 
    7. et al.
Genetic alterations of triple negative breast cancer by targeted next-
generation sequencing and correlation with tumor morphology. Mod Pathol
2016;29:476‚Äì88.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMod%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D29%26rf
t.spage%253D476%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  16. 16.‚Üµ

    1. Marchio C, 
    2. Geyer FC, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Piscuoglio S, 
    5. De Filippo MR, 
    6. Cupo M, 
    7. et al.
The genetic landscape of breast carcinomas with neuroendocrine
differentiation. J Pathol 2016;241:405‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D241%26rft
.spage%253D405%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  17. 17.‚Üµ

    1. Desmedt C, 
    2. Zoppoli G, 
    3. Gundem G, 
    4. Pruneri G, 
    5. Larsimont D, 
    6. Fornili M, 
    7. et al.
Genomic characterization of primary invasive lobular breast cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2016;34:1872‚Äì81.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2015.64.0334%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26926684
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiIzNC8xNi8xODcyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2Fu
cmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  18. 18.‚Üµ

    1. Dieci MV, 
    2. Smutna V, 
    3. Scott V, 
    4. Yin G, 
    5. Xu R, 
    6. Vielh P, 
    7. et al.
Whole exome sequencing of rare aggressive breast cancer histologies. Breast
Cancer Res Treat 2016;156:21‚Äì32.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D156%26rft.spage%253D21%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)

  19. 19.‚Üµ

    1. Lawrence MS, 
    2. Stojanov P, 
    3. Polak P, 
    4. Kryukov GV, 
    5. Cibulskis K, 
    6. Sivachenko A, 
    7. et al.
Mutational heterogeneity in cancer and the search for new cancer-associated
genes. Nature 2013;499:214‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D499%26rft.spa
ge%253D214%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12213%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F23770567%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12213&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23770567&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  20. 20.‚Üµ

    1. Gonzalez-Perez A, 
    2. Perez-Llamas C, 
    3. Deu-Pons J, 
    4. Tamborero D, 
    5. Schroeder MP, 
    6. Jene-Sanz A, 
    7. et al.
IntOGen-mutations identifies cancer drivers across tumor types. Nat Methods
2013;10:1081‚Äì2.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMethods%26rft.volume%253D10%26r
ft.spage%253D1081%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnmeth.2642%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24037244%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nmeth.2642&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=24037244&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  21. 21.‚Üµ

    1. Reimand J, 
    2. Bader GD
. Systematic analysis of somatic mutations in phosphorylation signaling
predicts novel cancer drivers. Mol Syst Biol 2013;9:637.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMol%2BSyst%2BBiol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%2
53Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fmsb.2012.68%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23340843%26r
ft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/look
up/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5Ijth
OjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MzoibXNiIj
tzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjkvMS82MzciO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMv
MTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  22. 22.‚Üµ

    1. Dees ND, 
    2. Zhang Q, 
    3. Kandoth C, 
    4. Wendl MC, 
    5. Schierding W, 
    6. Koboldt DC, 
    7. et al.
MuSiC: identifying mutational significance in cancer genomes. Genome Res
2012;22:1589‚Äì98.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.134635.111%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22759861%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6IjIyLzgvMTU4OSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8
yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  23. 23.‚Üµ

    1. Martincorena I, 
    2. Roshan A, 
    3. Gerstung M, 
    4. Ellis P, 
    5. Van Loo P, 
    6. McLaren S, 
    7. et al.
Tumor evolution. High burden and pervasive positive selection of somatic
mutations in normal human skin. Science 2015;348:880‚Äì6.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%26rft.stitle%253DScience%26rf
t.aulast%253DMartincorena%26rft.auinit1%253DI.%26rft.volume%253D348%26rft.issu
e%253D6237%26rft.spage%253D880%26rft.epage%253D886%26rft.atitle%253DHigh%2Bbur
den%2Band%2Bpervasive%2Bpositive%2Bselection%2Bof%2Bsomatic%2Bmutations%2Bin%2
Bnormal%2Bhuman%2Bskin%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscience.aaa68
06%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25999502%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%2
53Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3
M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoi
QUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoic2NpIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEyOiIzNDgvNj
IzNy84ODAiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4
OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  24. 24.‚Üµ

    1. Meyer MJ, 
    2. Lapcevic R, 
    3. Romero AE, 
    4. Yoon M, 
    5. Das J, 
    6. Beltran JF, 
    7. et al.
mutation3D: cancer gene prediction through atomic clustering of coding
variants in the structural proteome. Hum Mutat 2016;37:447‚Äì56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHum%2BMutat%26rft.volume%253D37%26rft
.spage%253D447%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  25. 25.‚Üµ

    1. Zhao J, 
    2. Zhang S, 
    3. Wu LY, 
    4. Zhang XS
. Efficient methods for identifying mutated driver pathways in cancer.
Bioinformatics 2012;28:2940‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBioinformatics%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253A
doi%252F10.1093%252Fbioinformatics%252Fbts564%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2
2982574%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev
%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full 
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6NzoiYmlvaW5mbyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czoxMDoiMjgvMjIvMjk0MCI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3O
iIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  26. 26.‚Üµ

    1. Ciriello G, 
    2. Cerami E, 
    3. Sander C, 
    4. Schultz N
. Mutual exclusivity analysis identifies oncogenic network modules. Genome Res
2012;22:398‚Äì406.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.125567.111%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21908773%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjIyLzIvMzk4IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzI
zLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  27. 27.‚Üµ

    1. Leiserson MD, 
    2. Blokh D, 
    3. Sharan R, 
    4. Raphael BJ
. Simultaneous identification of multiple driver pathways in cancer. PLoS
Comput Biol 2013;9:e1003054.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BComput%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253
D9%26rft.spage%253De1003054%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1371%252Fjournal.
pcbi.1003054%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23717195%26rft.genre%253Darticle%2
6rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003054&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=23717195&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  28. 28.‚Üµ

    1. Hou JP, 
    2. Ma J
. DawnRank: discovering personalized driver genes in cancer. Genome Med
2014;6:56.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D56%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13073-014-0056-8%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25177370%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253D
info%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26u
rl_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%
253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13073-014-0056-8&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25177370&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  29. 29.‚Üµ

    1. Lawrence MS, 
    2. Stojanov P, 
    3. Mermel CH, 
    4. Robinson JT, 
    5. Garraway LA, 
    6. Golub TR, 
    7. et al.
Discovery and saturation analysis of cancer genes across 21 tumour types.
Nature 2014;505:495‚Äì501.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D505%26rft.spa
ge%253D495%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12912%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F24390350%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12912&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=24390350&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  30. 30.‚Üµ

    1. Lefebvre C, 
    2. Bachelot T, 
    3. Filleron T, 
    4. Pedrero M, 
    5. Campone M, 
    6. Soria JC, 
    7. et al.
Mutational profile of metastatic breast cancers: a retrospective analysis.
PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002201.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002201%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  31. 31.‚Üµ

    1. Kehr EL, 
    2. Jorns JM, 
    3. Ang D, 
    4. Warrick A, 
    5. Neff T, 
    6. Degnin M, 
    7. et al.
Mucinous breast carcinomas lack PIK3CA and AKT1 mutations. Hum Pathol
2012;43:2207‚Äì12.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DHuman%2Bpathology%26rft.stitle%253DHu
m%2BPathol%26rft.aulast%253DKehr%26rft.auinit1%253DE.%2BL.%26rft.volume%253D43
%26rft.issue%253D12%26rft.spage%253D2207%26rft.epage%253D2212%26rft.atitle%253
DMucinous%2Bbreast%2Bcarcinomas%2Black%2BPIK3CA%2Band%2BAKT1%2Bmutations.%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.humpath.2012.03.012%26rft_id%253Dinfo%
253Apmid%252F22705004%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cross
Ref](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.humpath.2012.03.012&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=22705004&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  32. 32.‚Üµ

    1. Martelotto LG, 
    2. De Filippo MR, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Natrajan R, 
    5. Fuhrmann L, 
    6. Cyrta J, 
    7. et al.
Genomic landscape of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the breast. J Pathol
2015;237:179‚Äì89.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D237%26rft
.spage%253D179%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  33. 33.‚Üµ

    1. Ng CKY, 
    2. Piscuoglio S, 
    3. Geyer FC, 
    4. Burke KA, 
    5. Pareja F, 
    6. Eberle CA, 
    7. et al.
The landscape of somatic genetic alterations in metaplastic breast carcinomas.
Clin Cancer Res 2017 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print].

  34. 34.‚Üµ

    1. Toy W, 
    2. Shen Y, 
    3. Won H, 
    4. Green B, 
    5. Sakr RA, 
    6. Will M, 
    7. et al.
ESR1 ligand-binding domain mutations in hormone-resistant breast cancer. Nat
Genet 2013;45:1439‚Äì45.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D45%26rft
.spage%253D1439%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fng.2822%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24185512%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ng.2822&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24185512&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  35. 35.‚Üµ

    1. Miller CA, 
    2. Gindin Y, 
    3. Lu C, 
    4. Griffith OL, 
    5. Griffith M, 
    6. Shen D, 
    7. et al.
Aromatase inhibition remodels the clonal architecture of estrogen-receptor-
positive breast cancers. Nat Commun 2016;7:12498.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D12498%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  36. 36.‚Üµ

    1. Yates LR, 
    2. Gerstung M, 
    3. Knappskog S, 
    4. Desmedt C, 
    5. Gundem G, 
    6. Van Loo P, 
    7. et al.
Subclonal diversification of primary breast cancer revealed by multiregion
sequencing. Nat Med 2015;21:751‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D21%26rft.s
page%253D751%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnm.3886%26rft_id%253Din
fo%253Apmid%252F26099045%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aof
i%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cr
ossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nm.3886&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=26099045&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  37. 37.‚Üµ

    1. Balko JM, 
    2. Giltnane JM, 
    3. Wang K, 
    4. Schwarz LJ, 
    5. Young CD, 
    6. Cook RS, 
    7. et al.
Molecular profiling of the residual disease of triple-negative breast cancers
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy identifies actionable therapeutic targets.
Cancer Discov 2014;4:232‚Äì45.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-13-0286%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24356
096%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo3OiI0LzIvMjMyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY
2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  38. 38.‚Üµ

    1. Ng CK, 
    2. Martelotto LG, 
    3. Gauthier A, 
    4. Wen HC, 
    5. Piscuoglio S, 
    6. Lim RS, 
    7. et al.
Intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity and alternative driver genetic alterations
in breast cancers with heterogeneous HER2 gene amplification. Genome Biol
2015;16:107.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253D16%26r
ft.spage%253D107%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13059-015-0657-6%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25994018%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13059-015-0657-6&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25994018&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  39. 39.‚Üµ

    1. Martelotto LG, 
    2. Baslan T, 
    3. Kendall J, 
    4. Geyer FC, 
    5. Burke KA, 
    6. Spraggon L, 
    7. et al.
Whole-genome single-cell copy number profiling from formalin-fixed paraffin-
embedded samples. Nat Med 2017;23:376‚Äì85.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.s
page%253D376%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  40. 40.‚Üµ

    1. Juric D, 
    2. Castel P, 
    3. Griffith M, 
    4. Griffith OL, 
    5. Won HH, 
    6. Ellis H, 
    7. et al.
Convergent loss of PTEN leads to clinical resistance to a PI(3)Kalpha
inhibitor. Nature 2015;518:240‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D518%26rft.spa
ge%253D240%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature13948%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F25409150%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature13948&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=25409150&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  41. 41.‚Üµ

    1. Goodwin S, 
    2. McPherson JD, 
    3. McCombie WR
. Coming of age: ten years of next-generation sequencing technologies. Nat Rev
Genet 2016;17:333‚Äì51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D17
%26rft.spage%253D333%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrg.2016.49%26r
ft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27184599%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253
Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26
url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx
%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrg.2016.49&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27184599&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  42. 42.‚Üµ

    1. Navin N, 
    2. Kendall J, 
    3. Troge J, 
    4. Andrews P, 
    5. Rodgers L, 
    6. McIndoo J, 
    7. et al.
Tumour evolution inferred by single-cell sequencing. Nature 2011;472:90‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DNavin%26rft.auinit1%253DN.%26rft.volume%253D472%26rft.issue%253D734
1%26rft.spage%253D90%26rft.epage%253D94%26rft.atitle%253DTumour%2Bevolution%2B
inferred%2Bby%2Bsingle-cell%2Bsequencing.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.103
8%252Fnature09807%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21399628%26rft.genre%253Darti
cle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature09807&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=21399628&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  43. 43.‚Üµ

    1. Niu B, 
    2. Scott AD, 
    3. Sengupta S, 
    4. Bailey MH, 
    5. Batra P, 
    6. Ning J, 
    7. et al.
Protein-structure-guided discovery of functional mutations across 19 cancer
types. Nat Genet 2016;48:827‚Äì37.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D48%26rft
.spage%253D827%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  44. 44.‚Üµ

    1. Katigbak A, 
    2. Cencic R, 
    3. Robert F, 
    4. Senecha P, 
    5. Scuoppo C, 
    6. Pelletier J
. A CRISPR/Cas9 functional screen identifies rare tumor suppressors. Sci Rep
2016;6:38968.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DSci%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft.sp
age%253D38968%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004
%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  45. 45.‚Üµ

    1. Janku F, 
    2. Wheler JJ, 
    3. Westin SN, 
    4. Moulder SL, 
    5. Naing A, 
    6. Tsimberidou AM, 
    7. et al.
PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitors in patients with breast and gynecologic malignancies
harboring PIK3CA mutations. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:777‚Äì82.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2011.36.1196%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22271473
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjMwLzgvNzc3IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVz
LzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  46. 46.‚Üµ

    1. Dawood S, 
    2. Broglio K, 
    3. Buzdar AU, 
    4. Hortobagyi GN, 
    5. Giordano SH
. Prognosis of women with metastatic breast cancer by HER2 status and
trastuzumab treatment: an institutional-based review. J Clin Oncol
2010;28:92‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2008.19.9844%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F19933921
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjI4LzEvOTIiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMv
MjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  47. 47.‚Üµ

    1. Patel JH, 
    2. Loboda AP, 
    3. Showe MK, 
    4. Showe LC, 
    5. McMahon SB
. Analysis of genomic targets reveals complex functions of MYC. Nat Rev Cancer
2004;4:562‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%2Breviews.%2BCancer%26rft.stit
le%253DNat%2BRev%2BCancer%26rft.aulast%253DPatel%26rft.auinit1%253DJ.%2BH.%26r
ft.volume%253D4%26rft.issue%253D7%26rft.spage%253D562%26rft.epage%253D568%26rf
t.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2Bgenomic%2Btargets%2Breveals%2Bcomplex%2Bfunctions
%2Bof%2BMYC.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrc1393%26rft_id%253Din
fo%253Apmid%252F15229481%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aof
i%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Cr
ossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrc1393&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=15229481&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  48. 48.‚Üµ

    1. Prochownik EV, 
    2. Vogt PK
. Therapeutic targeting of Myc. Genes Cancer 2010;1:650‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenes%2BCancer%26rft.volume%253D1%26r
ft.spage%253D650%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1177%252F1947601910377494%26
rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F21132100%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1177/1947601910377494&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=21132100&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  49. 49.‚Üµ

    1. Muller PA, 
    2. Vousden KH
. Mutant p53 in cancer: new functions and therapeutic opportunities. Cancer
Cell 2014;25:304‚Äì17.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BCell%26rft.volume%253D25%26r
ft.spage%253D304%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.ccr.2014.01.021%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24651012%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.ccr.2014.01.021&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24651012&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  50. 50.‚Üµ

    1. Ellis MJ, 
    2. Perou CM
. The genomic landscape of breast cancer as a therapeutic roadmap. Cancer
Discov 2013;3:27‚Äì34.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscovery%26rft.stitle%253DC
ancer%2BDiscovery%26rft.aulast%253DEllis%26rft.auinit1%253DM.%2BJ.%26rft.volum
e%253D3%26rft.issue%253D1%26rft.spage%253D27%26rft.epage%253D34%26rft.atitle%2
53DThe%2BGenomic%2BLandscape%2Bof%2BBreast%2BCancer%2Bas%2Ba%2BTherapeutic%2BR
oadmap%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-12-0462%26rft_id
%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23319768%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo
%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_v
er%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253A
ctx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb
29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czo
xMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NzoiY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo2OiIzLzEvMjciO3M6N
DoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI
7czowOiIiO30=)

  51. 51.‚Üµ

    1. Posternak V, 
    2. Cole MD
. Strategically targeting MYC in cancer. F1000Res 2016;5.

  52. 52.‚Üµ

    1. Horiuchi D, 
    2. Camarda R, 
    3. Zhou AY, 
    4. Yau C, 
    5. Momcilovic O, 
    6. Balakrishnan S, 
    7. et al.
PIM1 kinase inhibition as a targeted therapy against triple-negative breast
tumors with elevated MYC expression. Nat Med 2016;22:1321‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D22%26rft.s
page%253D1321%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004
%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  53. 53.‚Üµ

    1. Baselga J, 
    2. Campone M, 
    3. Piccart M, 
    4. Burris HA III., 
    5. Rugo HS, 
    6. Sahmoud T, 
    7. et al.
Everolimus in postmenopausal hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2012;366:520‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNew%2BEngland%2BJournal%2Bof%2BMedici
ne%26rft.stitle%253DNEJM%26rft.aulast%253DBaselga%26rft.auinit1%253DJ.%26rft.v
olume%253D366%26rft.issue%253D6%26rft.spage%253D520%26rft.epage%253D529%26rft.
atitle%253DEverolimus%2Bin%2Bpostmenopausal%2Bhormone-receptor-positive%2Badva
nced%2Bbreast%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa110965
3%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22149876%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%25
3Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1109653&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=22149876&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  54. 54.‚Üµ

    1. Turner NC, 
    2. Ro J, 
    3. Andre F, 
    4. Loi S, 
    5. Verma S, 
    6. Iwata H, 
    7. et al.
Palbociclib in hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med
2015;373:209‚Äì19.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
73%26rft.spage%253D209%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1505270
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26030518%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1505270&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=26030518&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  55. 55.‚Üµ

    1. Finn RS, 
    2. Crown JP, 
    3. Ettl J, 
    4. Schmidt M, 
    5. Bondarenko IM, 
    6. Lang I, 
    7. et al.
Efficacy and safety of palbociclib in combination with letrozole as first-line
treatment of ER-positive, HER2-negative, advanced breast cancer: expanded
analyses of subgroups from the randomized pivotal trial PALOMA-1/TRIO-18.
Breast Cancer Res 2016;18:67.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft.volume%25
3D18%26rft.spage%253D67%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi
%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ
39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  56. 56.‚Üµ

    1. Hortobagyi GN, 
    2. Chen D, 
    3. Piccart M, 
    4. Rugo HS, 
    5. Burris HA III., 
    6. Pritchard KI, 
    7. et al.
Correlative analysis of genetic alterations and everolimus benefit in hormone
receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative advanced
breast cancer: results from BOLERO-2. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:419‚Äì26.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2014.60.1971%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26503204
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjg6IjM0LzUvNDE5IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVz
LzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  57. 57.‚Üµ

    1. Arnedos M, 
    2. Vicier C, 
    3. Loi S, 
    4. Lefebvre C, 
    5. Michiels S, 
    6. Bonnefoi H, 
    7. et al.
Precision medicine for metastatic breast cancer‚Äìlimitations and solutions. Nat
Rev Clin Oncol 2015;12:693‚Äì704.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D12%26rft.spage%253D693%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinon
c.2015.123%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26196250%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26r
ft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253D
Z39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%2
53Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.123&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26196250&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  58. 58.‚Üµ

    1. Hyman DM, 
    2. Puzanov I, 
    3. Subbiah V, 
    4. Faris JE, 
    5. Chau I, 
    6. Blay JY, 
    7. et al.
Vemurafenib in multiple nonmelanoma cancers with BRAF V600 mutations. N Engl J
Med 2015;373:726‚Äì36.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
73%26rft.spage%253D726%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1502309
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26287849%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1502309&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=26287849&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  59. 59.‚Üµ

    1. Alexandrov LB, 
    2. Nik-Zainal S, 
    3. Wedge DC, 
    4. Aparicio SA, 
    5. Behjati S, 
    6. Biankin AV, 
    7. et al.
Signatures of mutational processes in human cancer. Nature 2013;500:415‚Äì21.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.volume%253D500%26rft.spa
ge%253D415%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature12477%26rft_id%253D
info%253Apmid%252F23945592%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253A
ofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[
CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature12477&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=23945592&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  60. 60.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Alexandrov LB, 
    3. Wedge DC, 
    4. Van Loo P, 
    5. Greenman CD, 
    6. Raine K, 
    7. et al.
Mutational processes molding the genomes of 21 breast cancers. Cell
2012;149:979‚Äì93.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%26rft.stitle%253DCell%26rft.aula
st%253DNik-Zainal%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%26rft.volume%253D149%26rft.issue%253D5%
26rft.spage%253D979%26rft.epage%253D993%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2Bprocesse
s%2Bmolding%2Bthe%2Bgenomes%2Bof%2B21%2Bbreast%2Bcancers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.cell.2012.04.024%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F226080
84%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253A
mtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup
/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.cell.2012.04.024&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=22608084&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  61. 61.‚Üµ

    1. Nik-Zainal S, 
    2. Morganella S
. Mutational signatures in breast cancer: the problem at the DNA level. Clin
Cancer Res 2017;23:2617‚Äì29.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClinical%2BCancer%2BResearch%26rft.st
itle%253DClin.%2BCancer%2BRes.%26rft.aulast%253DNik-Zainal%26rft.auinit1%253DS
.%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.issue%253D11%26rft.spage%253D2617%26rft.epage%253D
2629%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2BSignatures%2Bin%2BBreast%2BCancer%253A%2BTh
e%2BProblem%2Bat%2Bthe%2BDNA%2BLevel%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252
F1078-0432.CCR-16-2810%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%
252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ3
9.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abst
ract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaW
psaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91
cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIzLzExLzI2MTciO3
M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVu
dCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  62. 62.‚Üµ

    1. Helleday T, 
    2. Eshtad S, 
    3. Nik-Zainal S
. Mechanisms underlying mutational signatures in human cancers. Nat Rev Genet
2014;15:585‚Äì98.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D15
%26rft.spage%253D585%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrg3729%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24981601%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrg3729&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24981601&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  63. 63.‚Üµ

    1. Telli ML, 
    2. Timms KM, 
    3. Reid J, 
    4. Hennessy B, 
    5. Mills GB, 
    6. Jensen KC, 
    7. et al.
Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) score predicts response to platinum-
containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with triple-negative breast
cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:3764‚Äì73.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-15-2477%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
26957554%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIyLzE1LzM3NjQiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  64. 64.‚Üµ

    1. Watkins JA, 
    2. Irshad S, 
    3. Grigoriadis A, 
    4. Tutt AN
. Genomic scars as biomarkers of homologous recombination deficiency and drug
response in breast and ovarian cancers. Breast Cancer Res 2014;16:211.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft.volume%25
3D16%26rft.spage%253D211%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fbcr3670%26r
ft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25093514%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253
Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26
url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx
%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/bcr3670&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=25093514&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  65. 65.‚Üµ

    1. Abkevich V, 
    2. Timms KM, 
    3. Hennessy BT, 
    4. Potter J, 
    5. Carey MS, 
    6. Meyer LA, 
    7. et al.
Patterns of genomic loss of heterozygosity predict homologous recombination
repair defects in epithelial ovarian cancer. Br J Cancer 2012;107:1776‚Äì82.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBritish%2BJournal%2Bof%2BCancer%26rft
.stitle%253DBritish%2BJournal%2Bof%2BCancer%26rft.aulast%253DAbkevich%26rft.au
init1%253DV.%26rft.volume%253D107%26rft.issue%253D10%26rft.spage%253D1776%26rf
t.epage%253D1782%26rft.atitle%253DPatterns%2Bof%2Bgenomic%2Bloss%2Bof%2Bhetero
zygosity%2Bpredict%2Bhomologous%2Brecombination%2Brepair%2Bdefects%2Bin%2Bepit
helial%2Bovarian%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fbjc.2012.
451%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23047548%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/bjc.2012.451&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-re
f?access_num=23047548&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  66. 66.‚Üµ

    1. Birkbak NJ, 
    2. Wang ZC, 
    3. Kim JY, 
    4. Eklund AC, 
    5. Li Q, 
    6. Tian R, 
    7. et al.
Telomeric allelic imbalance indicates defective DNA repair and sensitivity to
DNA-damaging agents. Cancer Discov 2012;2:366‚Äì75.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-11-0206%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22576
213%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo3OiIyLzQvMzY2IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY
2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  67. 67.‚Üµ

    1. Popova T, 
    2. Manie E, 
    3. Rieunier G, 
    4. Caux-Moncoutier V, 
    5. Tirapo C, 
    6. Dubois T, 
    7. et al.
Ploidy and large-scale genomic instability consistently identify basal-like
breast carcinomas with BRCA1/2 inactivation. Cancer Res 2012;72:5454‚Äì62.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-12-1470%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2293306
0%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiI3Mi8yMS81NDU0IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGl
uY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  68. 68.‚Üµ

    1. Glodzik D, 
    2. Morganella S, 
    3. Davies H, 
    4. Simpson PT, 
    5. Li Y, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
A somatic-mutational process recurrently duplicates germline susceptibility
loci and tissue-specific super-enhancers in breast cancers. Nat Genet
2017;49:341‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D49%26rft
.spage%253D341%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  69. 69.‚Üµ

    1. Antoniou AC, 
    2. Casadei S, 
    3. Heikkinen T, 
    4. Barrowdale D, 
    5. Pylkas K, 
    6. Roberts J, 
    7. et al.
Breast-cancer risk in families with mutations in PALB2. N Engl J Med
2014;371:497‚Äì506.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DN%2BEngl%2BJ%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D3
71%26rft.spage%253D497%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056%252FNEJMoa1400382
%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25099575%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt
%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-200
4%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1400382&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=25099575&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  70. 70.‚Üµ

    1. Davies H, 
    2. Glodzik D, 
    3. Morganella S, 
    4. Yates LR, 
    5. Staaf J, 
    6. Zou X, 
    7. et al.
HRDetect is a predictor of BRCA1 and BRCA2 deficiency based on mutational
signatures. Nat Med 2017;23:517‚Äì25.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D23%26rft.s
page%253D517%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  71. 71.‚Üµ

    1. Natrajan R, 
    2. Mackay A, 
    3. Lambros MB, 
    4. Weigelt B, 
    5. Wilkerson PM, 
    6. Manie E, 
    7. et al.
A whole-genome massively parallel sequencing analysis of BRCA1 mutant
oestrogen receptor-negative and -positive breast cancers. J Pathol
2012;227:29‚Äì41.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DThe%2BJournal%2Bof%2Bpathology%26rft.
stitle%253DJ%2BPathol%26rft.aulast%253DNatrajan%26rft.auinit1%253DR.%26rft.vol
ume%253D227%26rft.issue%253D1%26rft.spage%253D29%26rft.epage%253D41%26rft.atit
le%253DA%2Bwhole-genome%2Bmassively%2Bparallel%2Bsequencing%2Banalysis%2Bof%2B
BRCA1%2Bmutant%2Boestrogen%2Breceptor-negative%2Band%2B-positive%2Bbreast%2Bca
ncers.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1002%252Fpath.4003%26rft_id%253Dinfo%2
53Apmid%252F22362584%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossR
ef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1002/path.4003&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?a
ccess_num=22362584&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  72. 72.‚Üµ

The Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization of
human colon and rectal cancer. Nature 2012;487:330‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
volume%253D487%26rft.issue%253D7407%26rft.spage%253D330%26rft.epage%253D337%26
rft.atitle%253DComprehensive%2Bmolecular%2Bcharacterization%2Bof%2Bhuman%2Bcol
on%2Band%2Brectal%2Bcancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature11
252%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F22810696%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature11252&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=22810696&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  73. 73.‚Üµ

    1. Silwal-Pandit L, 
    2. Vollan HK, 
    3. Chin SF, 
    4. Rueda OM, 
    5. McKinney S, 
    6. Osako T, 
    7. et al.
TP53 mutation spectrum in breast cancer is subtype specific and has distinct
prognostic relevance. Clin Cancer Res 2014;20:3569‚Äì80.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DClin%2BCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1078-0432.CCR-13-2943%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
24803582%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6ImNsaW5jYW5yZXMiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6MTA6IjIwLzEzLzM1NjkiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7c
zoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30
=)

  74. 74.‚Üµ

    1. Lakhani SR
, International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization. WHO
classification of tumours of the breast. Lyon, France: International Agency
for Research on Cancer; 2012.

  75. 75.‚Üµ

    1. Theodorou V, 
    2. Stark R, 
    3. Menon S, 
    4. Carroll JS
. GATA3 acts upstream of FOXA1 in mediating ESR1 binding by shaping enhancer
accessibility. Genome Res 2013;23:12‚Äì22.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1101%252Fgr.139469.112%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23172872%26rft.
genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Aj
ournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/
ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ
6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiZ2Vub21lI
jtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjc6IjIzLzEvMTIiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2NsaW5jYW5yZXMvMjM
vMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  76. 76.‚Üµ

    1. Ross JS, 
    2. Gay LM, 
    3. Nozad S, 
    4. Wang K, 
    5. Ali SM, 
    6. Boguniewicz A, 
    7. et al.
Clinically advanced and metastatic pure mucinous carcinoma of the breast: a
comprehensive genomic profiling study. Breast Cancer Res Treat
2016;155:405‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D155%26rft.spage%253D405%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  77. 77.‚Üµ

    1. Shah SP, 
    2. Morin RD, 
    3. Khattra J, 
    4. Prentice L, 
    5. Pugh T, 
    6. Burleigh A, 
    7. et al.
Mutational evolution in a lobular breast tumour profiled at single nucleotide
resolution. Nature 2009;461:809‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DShah%26rft.auinit1%253DS.%2BP.%26rft.volume%253D461%26rft.issue%253
D7265%26rft.spage%253D809%26rft.epage%253D813%26rft.atitle%253DMutational%2Bev
olution%2Bin%2Ba%2Blobular%2Bbreast%2Btumour%2Bprofiled%2Bat%2Bsingle%2Bnucleo
tide%2Bresolution.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature08489%26rft
_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F19812674%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Di
nfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%2
53Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nature08489&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=19812674&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  78. 78.‚Üµ

    1. Ding L, 
    2. Ellis MJ, 
    3. Li S, 
    4. Larson DE, 
    5. Chen K, 
    6. Wallis JW, 
    7. et al.
Genome remodelling in a basal-like breast cancer metastasis and xenograft.
Nature 2010;464:999‚Äì1005.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNature%26rft.stitle%253DNature%26rft.
aulast%253DDing%26rft.auinit1%253DL.%26rft.volume%253D464%26rft.issue%253D7291
%26rft.spage%253D999%26rft.epage%253D1005%26rft.atitle%253DGenome%2Bremodellin
g%2Bin%2Ba%2Bbasal-like%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%2Bmetastasis%2Band%2Bxenograft.%26rf
t_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnature08989%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%2
52F20393555%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/look
up/external-ref?access_num=10.1038/nature08989&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=20393555&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  79. 79.‚Üµ

    1. Meric-Bernstam F, 
    2. Frampton GM, 
    3. Ferrer-Lozano J, 
    4. Yelensky R, 
    5. Perez-Fidalgo JA, 
    6. Wang Y, 
    7. et al.
Concordance of genomic alterations between primary and recurrent breast
cancer. Mol Cancer Ther 2014;13:1382‚Äì9.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DMol%2BCancer%2BTher%26rft_id%253Dinfo
%253Adoi%252F10.1158%252F1535-7163.MCT-13-0482%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F
24608573%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ake
v%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26ur
l_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full
Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6I
nF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M
6MTA6Im1vbGNhbnRoZXIiO3M6NToicmVzaWQiO3M6OToiMTMvNS8xMzgyIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6M
jc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  80. 80.‚Üµ

    1. Hoadley KA, 
    2. Siegel MB, 
    3. Kanchi KL, 
    4. Miller CA, 
    5. Ding L, 
    6. Zhao W, 
    7. et al.
Tumor evolution in two patients with basal-like breast cancer: a retrospective
genomics study of multiple metastases. PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002174.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002174%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  81. 81.‚Üµ

    1. Demeulemeester J, 
    2. Kumar P, 
    3. Moller EK, 
    4. Nord S, 
    5. Wedge DC, 
    6. Peterson A, 
    7. et al.
Tracing the origin of disseminated tumor cells in breast cancer using single-
cell sequencing. Genome Biol 2016;17:250.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DGenome%2BBiol%26rft.volume%253D17%26r
ft.spage%253D250%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1186%252Fs13059-016-1109-7%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27931250%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1186/s13059-016-1109-7&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=27931250&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  82. 82.‚Üµ

    1. Brastianos PK, 
    2. Carter SL, 
    3. Santagata S, 
    4. Cahill DP, 
    5. Taylor-Weiner A, 
    6. Jones RT, 
    7. et al.
Genomic characterization of brain metastases reveals branched evolution and
potential therapeutic targets. Cancer Discov 2015;5:1164‚Äì77.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BDiscov%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253
Adoi%252F10.1158%252F2159-8290.CD-15-0369%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26410
082%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253
Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx
_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text
](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1Z
XJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Nzo
iY2FuZGlzYyI7czo1OiJyZXNpZCI7czo5OiI1LzExLzExNjQiO3M6NDoiYXRvbSI7czoyNzoiL2Nsa
W5jYW5yZXMvMjMvMTEvMjYzMC5hdG9tIjt9czo4OiJmcmFnbWVudCI7czowOiIiO30=)

  83. 83.‚Üµ

    1. Savas P, 
    2. Teo ZL, 
    3. Lefevre C, 
    4. Flensburg C, 
    5. Caramia F, 
    6. Alsop K, 
    7. et al.
The subclonal architecture of metastatic breast cancer: results from a
prospective community-based rapid autopsy program "CASCADE". PLoS Med
2016;13:e1002204.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DPLoS%2BMed%26rft.volume%253D13%26rft.
spage%253De1002204%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252F
fmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88
-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  84. 84.‚Üµ

    1. Brown D, 
    2. Smeets D, 
    3. Sz√©kely B, 
    4. Larsimont D, 
    5. Sz√°sz AM, 
    6. Adnet PY, 
    7. et al.
Phylogenetic analysis of metastatic progression in breast cancer using somatic
mutations and copy number aberrations. Nat Commun 2017;8:14944.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D8%26rft
.spage%253D14944%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  85. 85.‚Üµ

    1. Achkar T, 
    2. Wilson J, 
    3. Simon J, 
    4. Rosenzweig M, 
    5. Puhalla S
. Metastatic breast cancer patients: attitudes toward tissue donation for
rapid autopsy. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2016;155:159‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D155%26rft.spage%253D159%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  86. 86.‚Üµ

    1. Yates L
. Abstract 1804 The driver landscape of breast cancer metastasis and relapse.
Eur J Cancer 2015;51:S266.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DEur%2BJ%2BCancer%26rft.volume%253D51%
26rft.spage%253DS266%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  87. 87.‚Üµ

    1. Li S, 
    2. Shen D, 
    3. Shao J, 
    4. Crowder R, 
    5. Liu W, 
    6. Prat A, 
    7. et al.
Endocrine-therapy-resistant ESR1 variants revealed by genomic characterization
of breast-cancer-derived xenografts. Cell Rep 2013;4:1116‚Äì30.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCell%2BRep%26rft.volume%253D4%26rft.s
page%253D1116%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.celrep.2013.08.022%2
6rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24055055%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%2
53Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.celrep.2013.08.022&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24055055&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  88. 88.‚Üµ

    1. Wang T, 
    2. Liu JH, 
    3. Zhang J, 
    4. Wang L, 
    5. Chen C, 
    6. Dai PG
. A multiplex allele-specific real-time PCR assay for screening of ESR1
mutations in metastatic breast cancer. Exp Mol Pathol 2015;98:152‚Äì7.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DExp%2BMol%2BPathol%26rft.volume%253D9
8%26rft.spage%253D152%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  89. 89.‚Üµ

    1. Robinson DR, 
    2. Wu YM, 
    3. Vats P, 
    4. Su F, 
    5. Lonigro RJ, 
    6. Cao X, 
    7. et al.
Activating ESR1 mutations in hormone-resistant metastatic breast cancer. Nat
Genet 2013;45:1446‚Äì51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BGenet%26rft.volume%253D45%26rft
.spage%253D1446%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fng.2823%26rft_id%253
Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24185510%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253
Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%2
53DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)
[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ng.2823&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?acc
ess_num=24185510&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  90. 90.‚Üµ

    1. Murtaza M, 
    2. Dawson SJ, 
    3. Pogrebniak K, 
    4. Rueda OM, 
    5. Provenzano E, 
    6. Grant J, 
    7. et al.
Multifocal clonal evolution characterized using circulating tumour DNA in a
case of metastatic breast cancer. Nat Commun 2015;6:8760.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D8760%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms9760%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26530965%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms9760&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=26530965&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  91. 91.‚Üµ

    1. Dawson SJ, 
    2. Tsui DW, 
    3. Murtaza M, 
    4. Biggs H, 
    5. Rueda OM, 
    6. Chin SF, 
    7. et al.
Analysis of circulating tumor DNA to monitor metastatic breast cancer. N Engl
J Med 2013;368:1199‚Äì209.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNew%2BEngland%2BJournal%2Bof%2BMedici
ne%26rft.stitle%253DNEJM%26rft.aulast%253DDawson%26rft.volume%253D368%26rft.sp
age%253D1199%26rft.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2BCirculating%2BTumor%2BDNA%2Bto%2
BMonitor%2BMetastatic%2BBreast%2BCancer.%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1056
%252FNEJMoa1213261%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23484797%26rft.genre%253Dart
icle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%2
52Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1056/NEJMoa1213261&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-r
ef?access_num=23484797&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  92. 92.‚Üµ

    1. De Mattos-Arruda L, 
    2. Weigelt B, 
    3. Cortes J, 
    4. Won HH, 
    5. Ng CK, 
    6. Nuciforo P, 
    7. et al.
Capturing intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity by de novo mutation profiling of
circulating cell-free tumor DNA: a proof-of-principle. Ann Oncol
2014;25:1729‚Äì35.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DAnn%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi
%252F10.1093%252Fannonc%252Fmdu239%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25009010%26r
ft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%25
3Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/look
up/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5Ijth
OjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiYW5ub2
5jIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6IjI1LzkvMTcyOSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJl
cy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  93. 93.‚Üµ

    1. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    2. Schiavon G, 
    3. Weigelt B, 
    4. Ng C, 
    5. Hrebien S, 
    6. Cutts RJ, 
    7. et al.
Mutation tracking in circulating tumor DNA predicts relapse in early breast
cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:302ra133.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DGarcia-Murillas%26rft.auini
t1%253DI.%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D302%26rft.spage%253D302ra133%26rf
t.epage%253D302ra133%26rft.atitle%253DMutation%2Btracking%2Bin%2Bcirculating%2
Btumor%2BDNA%2Bpredicts%2Brelapse%2Bin%2Bearly%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253D
info%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.aab0021%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%2
52F26311728%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253
Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%2
6url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE
Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtz
OjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZG
UiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjE0OiI3LzMwMi8zMDJyYTEzMyI7czo0
OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50Ij
tzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  94. 94.‚Üµ

    1. Gellert P, 
    2. Segal CV, 
    3. Gao Q, 
    4. Lopez-Knowles E, 
    5. Martin LA, 
    6. Dodson A, 
    7. et al.
Impact of mutational profiles on response of primary oestrogen receptor-
positive breast cancers to oestrogen deprivation. Nat Commun 2016;7:13294.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D13294%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffm
t%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2
004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  95. 95.‚Üµ

    1. Merenbakh-Lamin K, 
    2. Ben-Baruch N, 
    3. Yeheskel A, 
    4. Dvir A, 
    5. Soussan-Gutman L, 
    6. Jeselsohn R, 
    7. et al.
D538G mutation in estrogen receptor-alpha: a novel mechanism for acquired
endocrine resistance in breast cancer. Cancer Res 2013;73:6856‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-13-1197%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2421757
7%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiI3My8yMy82ODU2IjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGl
uY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  96. 96.‚Üµ

    1. Schiavon G, 
    2. Hrebien S, 
    3. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    4. Cutts RJ, 
    5. Pearson A, 
    6. Tarazona N, 
    7. et al.
Analysis of ESR1 mutation in circulating tumor DNA demonstrates evolution
during therapy for metastatic breast cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:313ra182.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DSchiavon%26rft.auinit1%253D
G.%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D313%26rft.spage%253D313ra182%26rft.epage
%253D313ra182%26rft.atitle%253DAnalysis%2Bof%2BESR1%2Bmutation%2Bin%2Bcirculat
ing%2Btumor%2BDNA%2Bdemonstrates%2Bevolution%2Bduring%2Btherapy%2Bfor%2Bmetast
atic%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.
aac7551%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26560360%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_
val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39
.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253A
kev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhd
GgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M
6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkI
jtzOjE0OiI3LzMxMy8zMTNyYTE4MiI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmNhbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8
yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  97. 97.‚Üµ

    1. Spoerke JM, 
    2. Gendreau S, 
    3. Walter K, 
    4. Qiu J, 
    5. Wilson TR, 
    6. Savage H, 
    7. et al.
Heterogeneity and clinical significance of ESR1 mutations in ER-positive
metastatic breast cancer patients receiving fulvestrant. Nat Commun
2016;7:11579.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D7%26rft
.spage%253D11579%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms11579%26rft_i
d%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27174596%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinf
o%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_
ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253
Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms11579&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref
?access_num=27174596&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  98. 98.‚Üµ

    1. Fribbens C, 
    2. O'Leary B, 
    3. Kilburn L, 
    4. Hrebien S, 
    5. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    6. Beaney M, 
    7. et al.
Plasma ESR1 mutations and the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive advanced
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:2961‚Äì8.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft_id%253Dinfo%25
3Adoi%252F10.1200%252FJCO.2016.67.3061%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F27269946
%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amt
x%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fm
t%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/
lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5
IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6Mzoiam
NvIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjEwOiIzNC8yNS8yOTYxIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2Fu
cmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzAuYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  99. 99.‚Üµ

    1. Oh C, 
    2. Waks A, 
    3. Oliver N, 
    4. Helvie K, 
    5. Marini L, 
    6. et al.
    1. Cohen O
Oh C, Waks A, Oliver N, Helvie K, Marini L, et al. Whole exome and
transcriptome sequencing of resistant ER+ metastatic breast cancer [abstract].
In: Proceedings of the 39th Annual San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium; 2016
Dec 6‚Äì10; San Antonio, TX. SABCS; 2016. Abstract nr S1-01.

  100. 100.‚Üµ

    1. Herrera-Abreu MT, 
    2. Palafox M, 
    3. Asghar U, 
    4. Rivas MA, 
    5. Cutts RJ, 
    6. Garcia-Murillas I, 
    7. et al.
Early adaptation and acquired resistance to CDK4/6 inhibition in estrogen
receptor-positive breast cancer. Cancer Res 2016;76:2301‚Äì13.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BRes%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Ado
i%252F10.1158%252F0008-5472.CAN-15-0728%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F2702085
7%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Am
tx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_f
mt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](
/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ
5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDoiQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6NjoiY
2FucmVzIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzOjk6Ijc2LzgvMjMwMSI7czo0OiJhdG9tIjtzOjI3OiIvY2xpbmN
hbnJlcy8yMy8xMS8yNjMwLmF0b20iO31zOjg6ImZyYWdtZW50IjtzOjA6IiI7fQ==)

  101. 101.‚Üµ

    1. Yang C, 
    2. Li Z, 
    3. Bhatt T, 
    4. Dickler M, 
    5. Giri D, 
    6. Scaltriti M, 
    7. et al.
Acquired CDK6 amplification promotes breast cancer resistance to CDK4/6
inhibitors and loss of ER signaling and dependence. Oncogene 2017;36:2255‚Äì64.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DOncogene%26rft.volume%253D36%26rft.sp
age%253D2255%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%
26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  102. 102.‚Üµ

    1. Chandarlapaty S, 
    2. Chen D, 
    3. He W, 
    4. Sung P, 
    5. Samoila A, 
    6. You D, 
    7. et al.
Prevalence of ESR1 mutations in cell-free DNA and outcomes in metastatic
breast cancer: a secondary analysis of the BOLERO-2 clinical trial. JAMA Oncol
2016;2:1310‚Äì5.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJAMA%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D2%26rft
.spage%253D1310%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-20
04%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

  103. 103.‚Üµ

    1. De Mattos-Arruda L, 
    2. Mayor R, 
    3. Ng CK, 
    4. Weigelt B, 
    5. Martinez-Ricarte F, 
    6. Torrejon D, 
    7. et al.
Cerebrospinal fluid-derived circulating tumour DNA better represents the
genomic alterations of brain tumours than plasma. Nat Commun 2015;6:8839.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BCommun%26rft.volume%253D6%26rft
.spage%253D8839%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fncomms9839%26rft_id%
253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26554728%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/ncomms9839&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup/external-ref?
access_num=26554728&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2F2630.atom)

  104. 104.‚Üµ

    1. Saini KS, 
    2. Loi S, 
    3. de Azambuja E, 
    4. Metzger-Filho O, 
    5. Saini ML, 
    6. Ignatiadis M, 
    7. et al.
Targeting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and Raf/MEK/ERK pathways in the treatment of
breast cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2013;39:935‚Äì46.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DCancer%2BTreat%2BRev%26rft.volume%253
D39%26rft.spage%253D935%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252Fj.ctrv.2013.
03.009%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F23643661%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_v
al_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Ak
ev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/j.ctrv.2013.03.009&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=23643661&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  105. 105.‚Üµ

    1. Bosch A, 
    2. Li Z, 
    3. Bergamaschi A, 
    4. Ellis H, 
    5. Toska E, 
    6. Prat A, 
    7. et al.
PI3K inhibition results in enhanced estrogen receptor function and dependence
in hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Sci Transl Med 2015;7:283ra51.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DScience%2BTranslational%2BMedicine%26
rft.stitle%253DSci%2BTransl%2BMed%26rft.aulast%253DBosch%26rft.auinit1%253DA.%
26rft.volume%253D7%26rft.issue%253D283%26rft.spage%253D283ra51%26rft.epage%253
D283ra51%26rft.atitle%253DPI3K%2Binhibition%2Bresults%2Bin%2Benhanced%2Bestrog
en%2Breceptor%2Bfunction%2Band%2Bdependence%2Bin%2Bhormone%2Breceptor-positive
%2Bbreast%2Bcancer%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1126%252Fscitranslmed.aaa4
442%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25877889%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_
fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-
2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%
253Amtx%253Actx)[Abstract/FREE Full Text](/lookup/ijlink/YTozOntzOjQ6InBhdGgiO
3M6MTQ6Ii9sb29rdXAvaWpsaW5rIjtzOjU6InF1ZXJ5IjthOjQ6e3M6ODoibGlua1R5cGUiO3M6NDo
iQUJTVCI7czoxMToiam91cm5hbENvZGUiO3M6MTE6InNjaXRyYW5zbWVkIjtzOjU6InJlc2lkIjtzO
jEzOiI3LzI4My8yODNyYTUxIjtzOjQ6ImF0b20iO3M6Mjc6Ii9jbGluY2FucmVzLzIzLzExLzI2MzA
uYXRvbSI7fXM6ODoiZnJhZ21lbnQiO3M6MDoiIjt9)

  106. 106.‚Üµ

    1. Andre F, 
    2. Bachelot T, 
    3. Commo F, 
    4. Campone M, 
    5. Arnedos M, 
    6. Dieras V, 
    7. et al.
Comparative genomic hybridisation array and DNA sequencing to direct treatment
of metastatic breast cancer: a multicentre, prospective trial
(SAFIR01/UNICANCER). Lancet Oncol 2014;15:267‚Äì74.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DLancet%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D15%26
rft.spage%253D267%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252FS1470-2045%252813%
252970611-9%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F24508104%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26
rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253
DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%
253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/S1470-2045\(13\)70611-9&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=24508104&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  107. 107.‚Üµ

    1. Hollebecque A, 
    2. Massard C, 
    3. De Baere T, 
    4. Auger N, 
    5. Lacroix L, 
    6. Koubi-Pick V, 
    7. et al.
Molecular screening for cancer treatment optimization (MOSCATO 01): a
prospective molecular triage trial-interim results. J Clin Oncol31, 2013
(suppl; abstr 2512).

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DJ%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D31%
26rft.spage%253Dsupplabstr2512%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%
253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ve
r%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ac
tx)

  108. 108.‚Üµ

    1. Le Tourneau C, 
    2. Delord JP, 
    3. Gon√ßalves A, 
    4. Gavoille C, 
    5. Dubot C, 
    6. Isambert N, 
    7. et al.
Molecularly targeted therapy based on tumour molecular profiling versus
conventional therapy for advanced cancer (SHIVA): a multicentre, open-label,
proof-of-concept, randomised, controlled phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol
2015;16:1324‚Äì34.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DLancet%2BOncol%26rft.volume%253D16%26
rft.spage%253D1324%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1016%252FS1470-2045%252815
%252900188-6%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F26342236%26rft.genre%253Darticle%2
6rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%25
3DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt
%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1016/S1470-2045\(15\)00188-6&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=26342236&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  109. 109.‚Üµ

    1. Klevebring D, 
    2. Lindberg J, 
    3. Rockberg J, 
    4. Hilliges C, 
    5. Hall P, 
    6. Sandberg M, 
    7. et al.
Exome sequencing of contralateral breast cancer identifies metastatic disease.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2015;151:319‚Äì24.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DBreast%2BCancer%2BRes%2BTreat%26rft.v
olume%253D151%26rft.spage%253D319%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Din
fo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url
_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%25
3Actx)

  110. 110.‚Üµ

    1. Zardavas D, 
    2. Irrthum A, 
    3. Swanton C, 
    4. Piccart M
. Clinical management of breast cancer heterogeneity. Nat Rev Clin Oncol
2015;12:381‚Äì94.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BRev%2BClin%2BOncol%26rft.volume
%253D12%26rft.spage%253D381%26rft.atitle%253DCLINICAL%2BMANAGEMENT%2BOF%2BBREA
ST%2BCANCER%2BHETEROGENEITY%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Adoi%252F10.1038%252Fnrclinon
c.2015.73%26rft_id%253Dinfo%253Apmid%252F25895611%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rf
t_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ
39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%25
3Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)[CrossRef](/lookup/external-
ref?access_num=10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.73&link_type=DOI)[PubMed](/lookup
/external-ref?access_num=25895611&link_type=MED&atom=%2Fclincanres%2F23%2F11%2
F2630.atom)

  111. 111.‚Üµ

    1. Alsop K, 
    2. Thorne H, 
    3. Sandhu S, 
    4. Hamilton A, 
    5. Mintoff C, 
    6. Christie E, 
    7. et al.
A community-based model of rapid autopsy in end-stage cancer patients. Nat
Biotechnol 2016;34:1010‚Äì4.

[OpenUrl]({openurl}?query=rft.jtitle%253DNat%2BBiotechnol%26rft.volume%253D34%
26rft.spage%253D1010%26rft.genre%253Darticle%26rft_val_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%25
2Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Ajournal%26ctx_ver%253DZ39.88-2004%26url_ver%253DZ39.
88-2004%26url_ctx_fmt%253Dinfo%253Aofi%252Ffmt%253Akev%253Amtx%253Actx)

[View
Abstract](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630.abstract)

__[ Previous](/content/23/11/2617)[Next __](/content/23/11/2640)

__ Back to top

![Clinical Cancer Research: 23 \(11\)](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/
sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/highwire/clincanres/23/11.cover-
source.jpg?itok=piHUl6JA)

June 2017  
Volume 23, Issue 11

  * [Table of Contents](/content/23/11.toc)
  * [Table of Contents (PDF)](/content/23/11.toc.pdf)
  * [About the Cover](/content/23/11.cover-expansion)
  * [Editorial Board (PDF)](/content/clincanres/23/11/local/ed-board.pdf)

Search for this keyword

__

[Sign up for alerts](/alerts/toc/edit?destination=alerts)

[View this article with _**LENS**_](/lens/clincanres/23/11/2630)

##

__[ Open full page PDF](/content/clincanres/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

__[ Article Alerts](/)

User Name *

Password *

Sign In to Email Alerts with your Email Address

Email *

__[ Email Article](/)

Thank you for sharing this Clinical Cancer Research article.

NOTE: We request your email address only to inform the recipient that it was
you who recommended this article, and that it is not junk mail. We do not
retain these email addresses.

Your Email *

Your Name *

Send To *

Enter multiple addresses on separate lines or separate them with commas.

You are going to email the following  [Translational Genomics: Practical
Applications of the Genomic Revolution in Breast Cancer](/content/23/11/2630)

Message Subject  (Your Name) has forwarded a page to you from Clinical Cancer
Research

Message Body  (Your Name) thought you would be interested in this article in
Clinical Cancer Research.

Your Personal Message

CAPTCHA

This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to
prevent automated spam submissions.

__[ Citation Tools](/highwire/citation/153269/download)

Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Clin Cancer Res June 1 2017 (23) (11) 2630-2639; DOI:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548

## Citation Manager Formats

  * [BibTeX](/highwire/citation/153269/bibtext)
  * [Bookends](/highwire/citation/153269/bookends)
  * [EasyBib](/highwire/citation/153269/easybib)
  * [EndNote (tagged)](/highwire/citation/153269/endnote-tagged)
  * [EndNote 8 (xml)](/highwire/citation/153269/endnote-8-xml)
  * [Medlars](/highwire/citation/153269/medlars)
  * [Mendeley](/highwire/citation/153269/mendeley)
  * [Papers](/highwire/citation/153269/papers)
  * [RefWorks Tagged](/highwire/citation/153269/refworks-tagged)
  * [Ref Manager](/highwire/citation/153269/reference-manager)
  * [RIS](/highwire/citation/153269/ris)
  * [Zotero](/highwire/citation/153269/zotero)

__[ Share](/)

Translational Genomics: Practical Applications of the Genomic Revolution in
Breast Cancer

Lucy R. Yates and Christine Desmedt

Clin Cancer Res June 1 2017 (23) (11) 2630-2639; DOI:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2548

Share This Article: Copy

![del.icio.us logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/h
ighwire/highwire/images/delicious-32.png) ![Digg logo](https://clincancerres.a
acrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/digg.png) ![Reddit 
logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwi
re/images/reddit.png) ![Twitter logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/s
ites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/twitter.png) ![CiteULike logo](https
://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/c
iteyoulike.png) ![Facebook logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/
all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/fb-blue.png) ![Google logo](https://clinc
ancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/modules/highwire/highwire/images/google-32
.png) ![Mendeley logo](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/sites/all/module
s/highwire/highwire/images/mendeley.png)

  * [Tweet Widget](http://twitter.com/share?url=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630&count=horizontal&via=&text=Translational%20Genomics%3A%20Practical%20Applications%20of%20the%20Genomic%20Revolution%20in%20Breast%20Cancer&counturl=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630)
  * [Facebook Like](http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A//clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630&layout=button_count&show_faces=false&action=like&colorscheme=light&width=100&height=21&font=&locale=)
  * [Google Plus One](https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/23/11/2630)

## Jump to section

  * [Article](/content/23/11/2630)

    * Abstract
    * Introduction
    * Application 1: Characterizing the Driver Landscape of Breast Cancer
    * Challenges
    * Application 2: Dynamic Mutational Processes and Repair Deficiencies
    * Challenges
    * Application 3: Supporting Molecular and Histologic Classification of Breast Cancers
    * Challenges
    * Application 4: Defining the Genomic Basis of Metastasis
    * Challenges
    * Application 5: Identifying Genomic Mechanisms of Resistance to Treatment
    * Challenges
    * Conclusions and Perspective
    * Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest
    * Grant Support
    * Footnotes
    * References

  * [Figures & Data](/content/23/11/2630.figures-only)
  * [Info & Metrics](/content/23/11/2630.article-info)
  * __[ PDF](/content/23/11/2630.full-text.pdf)

Advertisement

### __ Related Articles

### __ Cited By...

### __ More in this TOC Section

  * [Endpoints for Immuno-oncology Trials](/content/23/17/4959)

  * [Limitations and Challenges in Immuno-oncology Trials](/content/23/17/4992)

  * [Developing Early-Phase Combination Immunotherapy Trials](/content/23/17/4980)

[Show more CCR Focus](/content/by/section/CCR%20Focus)

  * [Home](/)
  * [Alerts](/alerts)
  * [Feedback](/feedback)
  * [Privacy Policy](http://aacrjournals.org/privacy-policy)
_[Facebook_](http://www.facebook.com/aacr.org)
_[Twitter_](https://twitter.com/CCR_AACR)
_[LinkedIn_](http://www.linkedin.com/company/american-association-for-cancer-
research)  _[YouTube_](http://www.youtube.com/user/AACRNews)
_[RSS_](/content/e-mail-alerts#rss)

## Articles

  * [Online First](/content/early/recent)
  * [Current Issue](/content/current)
  * [Past Issues](/content/by/year)
  * [CCR Focus Archive](/site/misc/ccrfocus.xhtml)
  * [Meeting Abstracts](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Meetings/meeting_abs.xhtml)

## Info for

  * [Authors](/site/misc/journal_ifora.xhtml)
  * [Subscribers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/info)
  * [Advertisers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Advertising.xhtml)
  * [Librarians](http://www.aacrjournals.org/subscribers/institutions-librarians)
  * [Reviewers](http://www.aacrjournals.org/site/Info/Reviewers.xhtml)

## About Clinical Cancer Research

  * [About the Journal](/site/misc/about.xhtml)
  * [Editorial Board](/site/misc/edboard.xhtml)
  * [Permissions](http://www.aacrjournals.org/content/3rd-party-permissions)
  * [Submit a Manuscript](http://ccr.msubmit.net/)

![AACR logo](/sites/default/files/additional_assets/images/aacr_pref_footer_18
0x50.png)

Copyright (C) 2020 by the American Association for Cancer Research.

_Clinical Cancer Research_  
eISSN: 1557-3265  
ISSN: 1078-0432

Advertisement

Skip to main content

**COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.** [CDC health information](https://www.coronavirus.gov) [NIH research information](https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus)

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI-logo.svg)

![Open Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7
l6QAAAAilBMVEUAAAD////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////2N2iNAAAALXRSTlMAJuVMCaUE9M66Dtl6/Pn
v65RG6d/Sn4J0OznHwrKqm5CJgWRbVi0V6sCKVR5yLz5NAAABEElEQVR4AY2P6XKDMAyExWEOMCRAw
0HuI02P+v1fr1IN2HJmMt1fu/pmbQkmZXexaUp/ex7gWWG/UrPyb5e+vylbh5DROlZcycPuappcbsH
12CjSLjL//r2c11OSJcXTgiXFz2zJI21ZePNFlPLMXqXAiZjCnco12GpxEk/bC9oKmDxqBNpv0HbAl
eNMartGe3PwHmeVtqV+iEmY3ejqq4NT096iPXIa0Ye99l9om5DhQKFG7QfykpUTnPgRmMvK0cJnKnT
sqZVZ/kL5I1vygXLReuSjIFEkn5JWqCcq37cp7ezyx065Yjw6FRZY+y4HT8Rzq8u8Zw5hICtR9QPd6
3Kuf/MUXvIYXnLe5jyN059fYMIyqmUcc+gAAAAASUVORK5CYII=) ![Open Navigation](data:i
mage/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeBAMAAADJHrORAAAAElBMVEUAAAD///
////////////////8+Uq06AAAABXRSTlMAiHfvO9PV4LcAAAAoSURBVBjTYyAEnJSQgQqDaSgyCGYI
RQXofAz1joLIQISQ9aPuo8x9ABWaRO+IIVJ/AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC) ![Close Navigation](data
:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD/
//////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTlMAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc4
0AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnx
bCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzLZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEyt
mP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

![Submit](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEAAAABACAMAAACdt4HsAA
AAjVBMVEUAAABe4NNg4NNr/7Vf4NNg4dNg4NNg4NRi4dRg4NRg4dNg4NNf3tJg4NNg4NRg4dNg4NNg
4NNg4NNg4dNg4dNg4NRg4dNf4dRi4dVg4NNf4NNg4dNk3tVX1NRg4NNg4NNi39Rg4NRh4NRg4NRf4N
Jg4NRg4dRh4dNg4NNh39Ng4dNg4NNg4NNh4NNg4NNrcCnMAAAALnRSTlMAKecD/Jb5SByp5NAPs4dt
9erXyo+De1AU7aQ0DAXvrS7gZ1c7nHVCiiRd8b++U+nTSwAAAjdJREFUeAGl1ed26joQBeBt5N5xwQ
UIJZQk9555/8c7f/AgL0uWc/w9wPZeMyOAQvv5lRTbnLqw7He3I37Hf0Q0kp+aX2ScA5umtrsYi/gB
aXxkAmZZTnrRGQZxQLPczFC/IBNHQM8KySw4QscPaYle1yEuaCSqfm7W99nL+i2NpFBLRitLv8GEl5
CsgUpGb3YVY2xf0lvnY8rPiV32mBA7m9gJUwGxsoWKlxPzpvdPrDxA7enSoJwpcGmh86mv4Ns8vxv0
HBokGHvQoMKMQ8jfaTES8f5jzLnSIIOsNVwZO3KFRDMdC/NSriog+eL7h8Fe/anENEImOuWD4Hf4A5
P/6eUByYZebjC5K8edG2aoGpcDCd/hN0xqerlD8h+9nGFSKRuE2meqf3U1JKV0oAZ89FdIenrpYRDz
uJ6Q7OhlKzCv4ecYQ3KjpUM4qY/+mI8fmZbv8hI0wbTHHEdXtaFBKaC35xFeBEaOWxrsoHUoaHQFyj
2Q7UFDBDRw/cl+P2iQP6EkHGLV7F+j+6nsHxDrWkV+RG/OYTq/gmh+TmeX3sLrETLfsUmysbS/+SxM
92Io35w4fDbBobHuzz2tqyDij5sSREAGxoQ7Lbe1oJCu7YCmW9vBP5FWt9ss6ACvJCW3amEtSoCXTD
cX1j4AUwJrs+SDmB05ngCgSdAQVvNIHcepr88DmDnBzAoNu9DQd1idcInXJtRYmVBgZYKLlQkbrEzo
sS7BtfBvrIvmX2CxuC7cTW8BfwEg+wD9oj3BAwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==)

![Close Search](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB4AAAAeCAMAAAAM
7l6QAAAAJFBMVEUAAAD///////////////////////////////////////////+0CY3pAAAAC3RSTl
MAW1WsZgnst+0H72ntc40AAAB2SURBVHja1dPBCsQgDATQaWJsd+f//7dQECkTds7rLT4MMRqg8go0
K75ZwOckeTRK8iwk2fnxbCcuLlflRHC5KgPq760diJrQJFP/XeoYne5DW9VV1XsFxtIBxy65K81dzL
ZFm/o/7xvmI5sxcEOEytmP4MzCDcX4D880HEjCAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)

## Main Navigation

  * [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
    * [Introduction to Genomics](/About-Genomics/Introduction-to-Genomics)
    * [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
    * [Policy Issues in Genomics](/about-genomics/policy-issues)
    * [The Human Genome Project](/human-genome-project)
  * [Research Funding](/research-funding)
    * [Funding Opportunities](/research-funding/Funding-Opportunities)
    * [Funded Programs & Projects](/research-funding/Funded-Programs-Projects)
    * [Program Staff](/research-funding/Program-Staff)
    * [News & Events](/research-funding/News-events)
  * [Research at NHGRI](/research-at-nhgri)
    * [Research Areas](/research-at-nhgri/Areas)
    * [Research Investigators](/research-at-nhgri/Investigators)
    * [Research Projects](/research-at-nhgri/Projects)
    * [Clinical Research](/research-at-nhgri/Clinical-Research)
    * [Data Tools & Resources](/research-at-nhgri/Data-Tools-and-Resources)
    * [News & Events](/research-at-nhgri/News-and-Events)
  * [Health](/health)
    * [Genomics & Medicine](/health/Genomics-and-Medicine)
    * [For Patients & Families](/health/For-Patients-and-Families)
    * [For Health Professionals](/health/For-Health-Professionals)
  * [Careers & Training](/careers-training)
    * [Jobs at NHGRI](/careers-training/NHGRI-Jobs)
    * [Research Training at NHGRI](/careers-training/research-training)
    * [Funding for Research Training](/careers-training/NHGRI-Funding-Opportunities-Training-Career-Development)
    * [Professional Development Programs](/careers-training/Professional-Development-Programs)
    * [NHGRI Culture](/careers-training/culture)
  * [News & Events](/news-events)
    * [News](/news)
    * [Events](/event-calendar)
    * [Social Media](/social-media)
    * [Videos](/video)
    * [Image Gallery](/image-gallery)
    * [Press Resources](/press-resources)
  * [About NHGRI](/about-nhgri)
    * [Organization](/about-nhgri/Organization)
    * [NHGRI Director](/About-NHGRI/Director)
    * [Mission and Vision](/about-nhgri/NHGRI-Vision-and-Mission)
    * [Policies and Guidance](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance)
    * [Budget](/about-nhgri/Budget-Financial-Information)
    * [Institute Advisors](/about-nhgri/Institute-Advisors)
    * [Strategic Plan](/about-nhgri/strategic-plan)
    * [Leadership Initiatives](/about-nhgri/leadership-initiatives)
    * [Partner with NHGRI](/about-nhgri/Partner-with-NHGRI)
    * [Staff Search](/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/about-nhgri/Contact)

## Social Icons

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/genome.gov/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/genome_gov)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/GenomeTV)

## Breadcrumb

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About Genomics](/about-genomics)
  3. [Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)
  4. [Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)
  5. Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

[Home](/)

[About Genomics](/about-genomics)

[Educational Resources](/About-Genomics/Educational-Resources)

[Fact Sheets about Genomics](/about-genomics/fact-sheets)

__

![NHGRI logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NHGRI_grey_teal.svg)

# Genetics vs. Genomics Fact Sheet

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics refers
to the study of genes and the way that certain traits or conditions are passed
down from one generation to another. Genomics describes the study of all of a
person's genes (the genome).

## What are genetics and genomics?

Genetics is a term that refers to the study of genes and their roles in
inheritance - in other words, the way that certain traits or conditions are
passed down from one generation to another. Genetics involves scientific
studies of genes and their effects. Genes (units of heredity) carry the
instructions for making proteins, which direct the activities of cells and
functions of the body. Examples of genetic or inherited disorders include
cystic fibrosis (See: [Learning About Cystic
Fibrosis](https://www.genome.gov/10001213/learning-about-cystic-fibrosis/)),
Huntington's disease ([Learning About Huntington's
Disease](https://www.genome.gov/10001215/learning-about-huntingtons-
disease/)), and phenylketonuria (PKU) ([Learning About
Phenylketonuria](https://www.genome.gov/25020037/learning-about-
phenylketonuria/)).

Genomics is a more recent term that describes the study of all of a person's
genes (the genome), including interactions of those genes with each other and
with the person's environment. Genomics includes the scientific study of
complex diseases such as heart disease, asthma, diabetes, and cancer because
these diseases are typically caused more by a combination of genetic and
environmental factors than by individual genes. Genomics is offering new
possibilities for therapies and treatments for some complex diseases, as well
as new diagnostic methods.

  * What are genetics and genomics?

Genetics is a term that refers to the study of genes and their roles in
inheritance - in other words, the way that certain traits or conditions are
passed down from one generation to another. Genetics involves scientific
studies of genes and their effects. Genes (units of heredity) carry the
instructions for making proteins, which direct the activities of cells and
functions of the body. Examples of genetic or inherited disorders include
cystic fibrosis (See: [Learning About Cystic
Fibrosis](https://www.genome.gov/10001213/learning-about-cystic-fibrosis/)),
Huntington's disease ([Learning About Huntington's
Disease](https://www.genome.gov/10001215/learning-about-huntingtons-
disease/)), and phenylketonuria (PKU) ([Learning About
Phenylketonuria](https://www.genome.gov/25020037/learning-about-
phenylketonuria/)).

Genomics is a more recent term that describes the study of all of a person's
genes (the genome), including interactions of those genes with each other and
with the person's environment. Genomics includes the scientific study of
complex diseases such as heart disease, asthma, diabetes, and cancer because
these diseases are typically caused more by a combination of genetic and
environmental factors than by individual genes. Genomics is offering new
possibilities for therapies and treatments for some complex diseases, as well
as new diagnostic methods.

## Why are genetics and genomics important to my health?

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics helps
individuals and families learn about how conditions such as sickle cell anemia
and cystic fibrosis are inherited in families, what screening and testing
options are available, and, for some genetic conditions, what treatments are
available. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions About Genetic
Disorders](https://www.genome.gov/19016930/faq-about-genetic-disorders/))

Genomics is helping researchers discover why some people get sick from certain
infections, environmental factors, and behaviors, while others do not. For
example, there are some people who exercise their whole lives, eat a healthy
diet, have regular medical checkups, and die of a heart attack at age 40.
There are also people who smoke, never exercise, eat unhealthy foods and live
to be 100. Genomics may hold the key to understanding these differences.

Apart from accidents (such as falls, motor vehicle accidents or poisoning),
genomic factors play a role in nine of the ten leading causes of death in the
United States (for example, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. See: [Leading
Causes of Death](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/FASTATS/lcod.htm) [cdc.gov]). All
human beings are 99.9 percent identical in their genetic makeup. Differences
in the remaining 0.1 percent hold important clues about the causes of
diseases. Gaining a better understanding of the interactions between genes and
the environment by means of genomics is helping researchers find better ways
to improve health and prevent disease, such as modifying diet and exercise
plans to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in people who carry
genetic predispositions to developing this disease.

  * Why are genetics and genomics important to my health?

Genetics and genomics both play roles in health and disease. Genetics helps
individuals and families learn about how conditions such as sickle cell anemia
and cystic fibrosis are inherited in families, what screening and testing
options are available, and, for some genetic conditions, what treatments are
available. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions About Genetic
Disorders](https://www.genome.gov/19016930/faq-about-genetic-disorders/))

Genomics is helping researchers discover why some people get sick from certain
infections, environmental factors, and behaviors, while others do not. For
example, there are some people who exercise their whole lives, eat a healthy
diet, have regular medical checkups, and die of a heart attack at age 40.
There are also people who smoke, never exercise, eat unhealthy foods and live
to be 100. Genomics may hold the key to understanding these differences.

Apart from accidents (such as falls, motor vehicle accidents or poisoning),
genomic factors play a role in nine of the ten leading causes of death in the
United States (for example, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. See: [Leading
Causes of Death](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/FASTATS/lcod.htm) [cdc.gov]). All
human beings are 99.9 percent identical in their genetic makeup. Differences
in the remaining 0.1 percent hold important clues about the causes of
diseases. Gaining a better understanding of the interactions between genes and
the environment by means of genomics is helping researchers find better ways
to improve health and prevent disease, such as modifying diet and exercise
plans to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in people who carry
genetic predispositions to developing this disease.

## Why are genetics and genomics important to my family's health?

Understanding more about diseases caused by a single gene (using genetics) and
complex diseases caused by multiple genes and environmental factors (using
genomics) can lead to earlier diagnoses, interventions, and targeted
treatments. A person's health is influenced by his/her family history and
shared environmental factors. This makes family history an important,
personalized tool that can help identify many of the causative factors for
conditions that also have a genetic component. The family history can serve as
the cornerstone for learning about genetic and genomic conditions in a family,
and for developing individualized approaches to disease prevention,
intervention, and treatment. (See: [My Family Health
Portrait](https://www.genome.gov/17516481/the-us-surgeon-generals-family-
history-initiative-family-history-initiative/)).

  * Why are genetics and genomics important to my family's health?

Understanding more about diseases caused by a single gene (using genetics) and
complex diseases caused by multiple genes and environmental factors (using
genomics) can lead to earlier diagnoses, interventions, and targeted
treatments. A person's health is influenced by his/her family history and
shared environmental factors. This makes family history an important,
personalized tool that can help identify many of the causative factors for
conditions that also have a genetic component. The family history can serve as
the cornerstone for learning about genetic and genomic conditions in a family,
and for developing individualized approaches to disease prevention,
intervention, and treatment. (See: [My Family Health
Portrait](https://www.genome.gov/17516481/the-us-surgeon-generals-family-
history-initiative-family-history-initiative/)).

## What are some of the new genetic and genomic techniques and technologies?

**Proteomics**

The suffix "-ome" comes from the Greek for _all_, _every_, or _complete_. It
was originally used in "genome," which refers to all the genes in a person or
other organism. Due to the success of large-scale biology projects such as the
sequencing of the human genome, the suffix "-ome" is now being used in other
research contexts. Proteomics is an example. The DNA sequence of genes carries
the instructions, or code, for building proteins. This DNA is transcribed into
a related molecule, RNA, which is then translated into proteins. Proteomics,
therefore, is a similar large-scale analysis of all the proteins in an
organism, tissue type, or cell (called the proteome). Proteomics can be used
to reveal specific, abnormal proteins that lead to diseases, such as certain
forms of cancer.

**Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics**

The terms "pharmacogenetics" and "pharmacogenomics" are often used
interchangeably in describing the intersection of pharmacology (the study of
drugs, or pharmaceuticals) and genetic variability in determining an
individual's response to particular drugs. The terms may be distinguished in
the following way.

Pharmacogenetics is the field of study dealing with the variability of
responses to medications due to variation in single genes. Pharmacogenetics
takes into account a person's genetic information regarding specific drug
receptors and how drugs are transported and metabolized by the body. The goal
of pharmacogenetics is to create an individualized drug therapy that allows
for the best choice and dose of drugs. One example is the breast cancer drug
trastuzumab (Herceptin). This therapy works only for women whose tumors have a
particular genetic profile that leads to overproduction of a protein called
HER2. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/))

Pharmacogenomics is similar to pharmacogenetics, except that it typically
involves the search for variations in multiple genes that are associated with
variability in drug response. Since pharmacogenomics is one of the large-scale
"omic" technologies, it can examine the entirety of the genome, rather than
just single genes. Pharmacogenomic studies may also examine genetic variation
among large groups of people (populations), for example, in order to see how
different drugs might affect different racial or ethnic groups.

Pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic studies are leading to drugs that can be
tailor-made for individuals, and adapted to each person's particular genetic
makeup. Although a person's environment, diet, age, lifestyle, and state of
health can also influence that person's response to medicines, understanding
an individual's genetic makeup is key to creating personalized drugs that work
better and have fewer side effects than the one-size-fits-all drugs that are
common today. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/)). For example, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) recommends genetic testing before giving the chemotherapy
drug mercaptopurine (Purinethol) to patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia. Some people have a genetic variant that interferes with their
ability to process this drug. This processing problem can cause severe side
effects, unless the standard dose is adjusted according to the patient's
genetic makeup. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions about
Pharmacogenomics](https://www.genome.gov/27530645/faq-about-
pharmacogenomics/)).

**Stem Cell Therapy**

Stem cells have two important characteristics. First, stem cells are
unspecialized cells that can develop into various specialized body cells.
Second, stem cells are able to stay in their unspecialized state and make
copies of themselves. Embryonic stem cells come from the embryo at a very
early stage in development (the blastocyst staqe). The stem cells in the
blastocyst go on to develop all of the cells in the complete organism. Adult
stem cells come from more fully developed tissues, like umbilical cord blood
in newborns, circulating blood, bone marrow or skin.

Medical researchers are investigating the use of stem cells to repair or
replace damaged body tissues, similar to whole organ transplants. Embryonic
stem cells from the blastocyst have the ability to develop into every type of
tissue (skin, liver, kidney, blood, etc.) found in an adult human. Adult stem
cells are more limited in their potential (for example, stem cells from liver
may only develop into more liver cells). In organ transplants, when tissues
from a donor are placed into the body of a patient, there is the possibility
that the patient's immune system may react and reject the donated tissue as
"foreign." However, by using stem cells, there may be less risk of this immune
rejection, and the therapy may be more successful.

Stem cells have been used in experiments to form cells of the bone marrow,
heart, blood vessels, and muscle. Since the 1990's, umbilical cord blood stem
cells have been used to treat heart and other physical problems in children
who have rare metabolic conditions, or to treat children with certain anemias
and leukemias. For example, one of the treatment options for [childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia](http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/child
ALL/Patient/page1) [cancer.gov] is stem cell transplantation therapy.

There has been much debate nationally about the use of embryonic stem cells,
especially about the creation of human embryos for use in experiments. In
1995, Congress enacted a ban on federal financing for research using human
embryos. However, these restrictions have not stopped researchers in the
United States and elsewhere from using private funding to create new embryonic
cell lines and undertaking research with them. The embryos for such research
are typically obtained from embryos that develop from eggs that have been
fertilized _in vitro_ \- as in an _in vitro_ fertilization clinic - and then
donated for research purposes with informed consent of the donors. In 2009,
some of the barriers to federal financing of responsible and scientifically
worthy human stem cell research were lifted.

**Cloning**

Cloning can refer to genes, cells, or whole organisms. In the case of a cell,
a clone refers to any genetically identical cell in a population that comes
from a single, common ancestor. For example, when a single bacterial cell
copies its DNA and divides thousands of times, all of the cells that are
formed will contain the same DNA and will be clones of the common ancestor
bacterial cell. Gene cloning involves manipulations to make multiple identical
copies of a single gene from the same ancestor gene. Cloning an organism means
making a genetically identical copy of all of the cells, tissues, and organs
that make up the organism. There are two major types of cloning that may
relate to humans or other animals: therapeutic cloning and reproductive
cloning.

Therapeutic cloning involves growing cloned cells or tissues from an
individual, such as new liver tissue for a patient with a liver disease. Such
cloning attempts typically involve the use of stem cells. The nucleus will be
taken from a patient's body cell, such as a liver cell, and inserted into an
egg that has had its nucleus removed. This will ultimately produce a
blastocyst whose stem cells could then be used to create new tissue that is
genetically identical to that of the patient.

Reproductive cloning is a related process used to generate an entire animal
that has the same nuclear DNA as another currently or previously existing
animal. The first cloned animals were frogs. Dolly, the famous sheep, is
another example of cloning. The success rates of reproductive animal cloning,
however, have been very low. In 2005, South Korean researchers claimed to have
produced human embryonic stem cell lines by cloning genetic material from
patients. However, this data was later reported to have been falsified.

  * What are some of the new genetic and genomic techniques and technologies?

**Proteomics**

The suffix "-ome" comes from the Greek for _all_, _every_, or _complete_. It
was originally used in "genome," which refers to all the genes in a person or
other organism. Due to the success of large-scale biology projects such as the
sequencing of the human genome, the suffix "-ome" is now being used in other
research contexts. Proteomics is an example. The DNA sequence of genes carries
the instructions, or code, for building proteins. This DNA is transcribed into
a related molecule, RNA, which is then translated into proteins. Proteomics,
therefore, is a similar large-scale analysis of all the proteins in an
organism, tissue type, or cell (called the proteome). Proteomics can be used
to reveal specific, abnormal proteins that lead to diseases, such as certain
forms of cancer.

**Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics**

The terms "pharmacogenetics" and "pharmacogenomics" are often used
interchangeably in describing the intersection of pharmacology (the study of
drugs, or pharmaceuticals) and genetic variability in determining an
individual's response to particular drugs. The terms may be distinguished in
the following way.

Pharmacogenetics is the field of study dealing with the variability of
responses to medications due to variation in single genes. Pharmacogenetics
takes into account a person's genetic information regarding specific drug
receptors and how drugs are transported and metabolized by the body. The goal
of pharmacogenetics is to create an individualized drug therapy that allows
for the best choice and dose of drugs. One example is the breast cancer drug
trastuzumab (Herceptin). This therapy works only for women whose tumors have a
particular genetic profile that leads to overproduction of a protein called
HER2. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/))

Pharmacogenomics is similar to pharmacogenetics, except that it typically
involves the search for variations in multiple genes that are associated with
variability in drug response. Since pharmacogenomics is one of the large-scale
"omic" technologies, it can examine the entirety of the genome, rather than
just single genes. Pharmacogenomic studies may also examine genetic variation
among large groups of people (populations), for example, in order to see how
different drugs might affect different racial or ethnic groups.

Pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic studies are leading to drugs that can be
tailor-made for individuals, and adapted to each person's particular genetic
makeup. Although a person's environment, diet, age, lifestyle, and state of
health can also influence that person's response to medicines, understanding
an individual's genetic makeup is key to creating personalized drugs that work
better and have fewer side effects than the one-size-fits-all drugs that are
common today. (See: [Genetics, Disease Prevention and
Treatment](https://www.genome.gov/19016938/faq-about-genetics-disease-
prevention-and-treatment/)). For example, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) recommends genetic testing before giving the chemotherapy
drug mercaptopurine (Purinethol) to patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia. Some people have a genetic variant that interferes with their
ability to process this drug. This processing problem can cause severe side
effects, unless the standard dose is adjusted according to the patient's
genetic makeup. (See: [Frequently Asked Questions about
Pharmacogenomics](https://www.genome.gov/27530645/faq-about-
pharmacogenomics/)).

**Stem Cell Therapy**

Stem cells have two important characteristics. First, stem cells are
unspecialized cells that can develop into various specialized body cells.
Second, stem cells are able to stay in their unspecialized state and make
copies of themselves. Embryonic stem cells come from the embryo at a very
early stage in development (the blastocyst staqe). The stem cells in the
blastocyst go on to develop all of the cells in the complete organism. Adult
stem cells come from more fully developed tissues, like umbilical cord blood
in newborns, circulating blood, bone marrow or skin.

Medical researchers are investigating the use of stem cells to repair or
replace damaged body tissues, similar to whole organ transplants. Embryonic
stem cells from the blastocyst have the ability to develop into every type of
tissue (skin, liver, kidney, blood, etc.) found in an adult human. Adult stem
cells are more limited in their potential (for example, stem cells from liver
may only develop into more liver cells). In organ transplants, when tissues
from a donor are placed into the body of a patient, there is the possibility
that the patient's immune system may react and reject the donated tissue as
"foreign." However, by using stem cells, there may be less risk of this immune
rejection, and the therapy may be more successful.

Stem cells have been used in experiments to form cells of the bone marrow,
heart, blood vessels, and muscle. Since the 1990's, umbilical cord blood stem
cells have been used to treat heart and other physical problems in children
who have rare metabolic conditions, or to treat children with certain anemias
and leukemias. For example, one of the treatment options for [childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia](http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/child
ALL/Patient/page1) [cancer.gov] is stem cell transplantation therapy.

There has been much debate nationally about the use of embryonic stem cells,
especially about the creation of human embryos for use in experiments. In
1995, Congress enacted a ban on federal financing for research using human
embryos. However, these restrictions have not stopped researchers in the
United States and elsewhere from using private funding to create new embryonic
cell lines and undertaking research with them. The embryos for such research
are typically obtained from embryos that develop from eggs that have been
fertilized _in vitro_ \- as in an _in vitro_ fertilization clinic - and then
donated for research purposes with informed consent of the donors. In 2009,
some of the barriers to federal financing of responsible and scientifically
worthy human stem cell research were lifted.

**Cloning**

Cloning can refer to genes, cells, or whole organisms. In the case of a cell,
a clone refers to any genetically identical cell in a population that comes
from a single, common ancestor. For example, when a single bacterial cell
copies its DNA and divides thousands of times, all of the cells that are
formed will contain the same DNA and will be clones of the common ancestor
bacterial cell. Gene cloning involves manipulations to make multiple identical
copies of a single gene from the same ancestor gene. Cloning an organism means
making a genetically identical copy of all of the cells, tissues, and organs
that make up the organism. There are two major types of cloning that may
relate to humans or other animals: therapeutic cloning and reproductive
cloning.

Therapeutic cloning involves growing cloned cells or tissues from an
individual, such as new liver tissue for a patient with a liver disease. Such
cloning attempts typically involve the use of stem cells. The nucleus will be
taken from a patient's body cell, such as a liver cell, and inserted into an
egg that has had its nucleus removed. This will ultimately produce a
blastocyst whose stem cells could then be used to create new tissue that is
genetically identical to that of the patient.

Reproductive cloning is a related process used to generate an entire animal
that has the same nuclear DNA as another currently or previously existing
animal. The first cloned animals were frogs. Dolly, the famous sheep, is
another example of cloning. The success rates of reproductive animal cloning,
however, have been very low. In 2005, South Korean researchers claimed to have
produced human embryonic stem cell lines by cloning genetic material from
patients. However, this data was later reported to have been falsified.

Last updated: September 7, 2018

## Get Updates

Enter your email address to receive updates about the latest advances in
genomics research.

Email Address

I'm interested in:

News & Events

The Genomics Landscape

National DNA Day

2020 Strategic Planning Initiative

## Social Media Stream

[Follow Us](/social-media)

[ ![NIH logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/NIH_mark_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.nih.gov/)

[ ![DHHS logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/DHHS_logo_white.svg)
](https://www.hhs.gov/)

[ ![USA Gov logo](/themes/custom/nhgri/assets/global/US-GSA-USAGov-
Logo_white.svg) ](https://www.usa.gov/)

## Footer Links

  * [Contact](/about-nhgri/Contact)
  * [Accessibility](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Accessibility)
  * [Site Map](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Site-Map)
  * [Staff Search](/staff)
  * [FOIA](https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-liaison/freedom-information-act-office)
  * [Privacy](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Privacy)
  * [Copyright](/about-nhgri/Policies-Guidance/Copyright)

